use the following search parameters to narrow your results:
e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog
see the search faq for details.
advanced search: by author, subreddit...
HuntShowdown
878 users here now
WELCOME
/r/HuntShowdown is home for Hunt: Showdown community and a hub for the discussion and sharing of content relevant to the game.   
Hunt: Showdown is a competitive first-person PvP bounty hunting game with heavy PvE elements, from the makers of Crysis. Set in the darkest corners of the world, it packs the thrill of survival games into a match-based format.
RULES
CLICK HERE for details on subreddit rules.
IMPORTANT LINKS
OTHER SUBREDDITS
COMMUNITY TOOLS
COMMUNITY GUIDES
JOIN THE LIVE CHAT

AWARDS

MODERATORS
the front page of the internet.
and join one of thousands of communities.

MEGATHREAD: Necro + Solo DiscussionMODERATOR  (self.HuntShowdown)
submitted 1 month ago by Snowymew2[M] - announcement
Hunters!
Welcome to the rootinest-tootinest watering hole for your discussing needs!
We’ve been noticing an uptick in the posts discussing the Necromancer trait as well as the solo aspect of this trait. While we love the active discussion from both sides, the sub has been cluttered with these kinds of posts. Thus, to answer the demand for a place to discuss this controversial game mechanic this thread has been supplied.
This is the place to present your side/opinion on the issue to your heart’s content (within the rules of Reddit + this Subreddit) 
From this moment forward, any new post related to this topic will be removed (only posts made after this thread). 
Keep it civil, and happy hunting!
Post a comment!

[–]KermitmentIssues Bootcher[M] [score hidden] 1 month ago* stickied comment (19 children)
General PSA for those that aren't aware, we aren't actually an official sub. 
We do not work for Crytek. 
Crytek did not ask us to make this thread. 
We made this thread of our own accord, as the volume of posts was drowning out any other posts related to the latest event and update. This is a place for discussion of all things Hunt-related, and having one topic dominate the space is counterproductive to that end.
However, it should be noted that we do pass major community outcry/complaints/feedback to Crytek, and in the case of a megathread like this, can easily point the devs to one single place of discussion for their viewing pleasure. Not only is it more accessible, it's just more efficient.



[–]Calix19 113 points114 points115 points 1 month ago (43 children)
I think this is a terrible mechanic even before the fire resistant pact.  Going in solo is a known disadvantage, and that is why it gives a bonus reward and an MMR handicap.  These players shouldn’t be rewarded with such a powerful trait.  
The number of revives available is ridiculous, and the speed at which the revive is available is way too fast.  The dead solo player can revive and shoot before the the person that killed them even has had a chance to reload, change positions, or heal.  
Changing these things would at least help, but at NO point in my years playing Hunt did I ever think to myself “Hey, you know what’s really holding this game back?  Solo players are too weak.  That’s what we should really be focusing on.”

[–]ToolyHD Magna Veritas 13 points14 points15 points 29 days ago (0 children)
10s is not too fast

[–]Verttoll 32 points33 points34 points 29 days ago (6 children)
10s is too fast? Only time necro saves me is if I trade with last dude or if I die in big fight where you can't tell who's with who. Every single time I get downed fighting solo against team they manage to camp my corpse just fine. How would you like it to work? Would you like enough time to heal, reload, revive, find traps and lanterns and maybe do a quick run to a supply vagons to the other side of the map and back before the solo can ress?

[–]uselessNamer 5 points6 points7 points 29 days ago (3 children)
Kind of true, but this also applies when your the last one of your team or you are seperated. Moreover it applies on solo vs. solo. I play solo most of the time and can confirm it is often impossible to hold down the other solo, for the reasons listed by Calix19. Without backup you can even get supriced later, while looting or placing traps, if you missclick once.

[–]XombiKing 0 points1 point2 points 27 days ago (2 children)
If you can't keep a solo player down you are bad. It takes 0 effort

[–]uselessNamer 2 points3 points4 points 26 days ago (1 child)
You should know very well, that the amount of trouble depends on the situation. Stopping a bleading combined with slow reloading gun, is a good startin point for trouble. Maybe you recieved Poison damage in the fight with the solo or you are still stuck in barbwire. Give him some nice perks and he stands up better prepared for the next fight then you are.

[–]LethalGhost 4 points5 points6 points 25 days ago (0 children)
Moreover solo can revive with full HP and if you're bleeding or low on HP they will get advantage for being killed.

[–]XombiKing 1 point2 points3 points 27 days ago (0 children)
Hahaha facts

[–]SexcaliburHorsepower 1 point2 points3 points 24 days ago (0 children)
10s is just right when playing a mosin or shotgun player in a compound, but a sniper can die, rez, reposition and camp for a rampage headshot. It's very hard to balance solo necro in its current form.

[–]Rn12Tim 20 points21 points22 points 1 month ago (0 children)
100%

[–]AntBackground4684 20 points21 points22 points 28 days ago (25 children)
Everything that you listed applies to teams two or three fold so your argument is invalid. Players can necro their team mates faster, with cover, knowing what is going on around them, potentially while another team mate covers them. The MMR handicap is negligible now, team MMR far outweighs a solo. When it was equal matchmaking people complained.
The number of revives available is ridiculous, and the speed at which the revive is available is way too fast. The dead solo player can revive and shoot before the the person that killed them even has had a chance to reload, change positions, or heal.
This is just ridiculously false and you should feel embarrassed. 10 seconds is enough time to heal, reposition, revive a team mate, reload, trap and/or burn the body, whatever you want to do.
Changing these things would at least help, but at NO point in my years playing Hunt did I ever think to myself “Hey, you know what’s really holding this game back? Solo players are too weak. That’s what we should really be focusing on.”
Because you obviously only play in a team. Some people like to play solo and self revive is really only useful if you're sniping at this point with a 10 second revive. The rest of the time you're just playing possum hoping the team that got a lucky shot on you gets careless. Self revive is not a powerful trait, its not even comparable to team mates reviving you, normally or by Necro. Its a tax on the stupid like the lottery and your chances of getting back up are basically a lottery with the outcome decided by how smart your opponents are.

[–]Calix19 25 points26 points27 points 28 days ago (18 children)
What’s embarrassing is you trying to compare a solo clicking a single button that says Revive to a team coordinating and getting a revive during a fight against possibly multiple other Hunters.  Ten seconds is not too long if there is literally nothing else going on — no AI, no other Hunters, no need to reload, no need to heal, no need to get closer and get sight on the body.
It’s not a good mechanic, as evidenced by how controversial it is.  Good, balanced game mechanics don’t get a Sticky at the top of the subreddit to funnel all the criticism.
Right now, it’s just a mechanic being abused by streamers and wannabes so they can dunk on lower skilled lobbies.

[–]Critical_Ad5443 10 points11 points12 points 26 days ago (3 children)
basically this. in most cases. necro is not an issue. you kill him, you have ateamate still alive who can go revive your 3rd. there are no other hunters pushing you and no need for immediate recovery of ammo or health.  
but you add in you are the last member of your squad left,you are low health, you just clicked empty. you can TRY to revive your team but theyll get up before your teamate does, you can try to heal but theyll revive before you can bandage up and reload. or worst...you can sit there,watching him,low HP with 2 dead teamates and pray that the fire fight didnt attract a 3rd party who will just clean you up since you cant risk reviving your team.  
or if you snipe him from long range. he will be back up LONG before you even get CLOSE to his body. the 10sec timer was added to "give you a chance to counter his revive" (as was stated when it became official instead of the abusive event version it used to be)   
it dosnt matter if its "easy to counter when you have a team" if its just extremely annoying and not fun to play against. then its a mechanic that needs to change. (more so now that they can revive at near full HP...or during the event WITH full HP giving them even better chances at ignoring body traps or even trading with the LOW hp person watching the body)

[–]bigfootmydog 0 points1 point2 points 11 days ago (2 children)
is it "extremely annoying and unfun" to play against when you play against a team of 3 and they necro revive their teammate? Because that is 100% of solo vs team engagements past 4*. My point is it's a two way road and necro's been broken for a LONG time so the narrative that it's "unfun" when you play against it on a solo is entirely fabricated because you've been playing against it since patch 1.4.4 and just now realized it's strong when a solo used it. I've played since EA. Necro was a big turning point in the games overall approach to gameplay and balance. That's when they determined that hunt is not a competitive game and simply never will be so they began to balance it for fun, which was a healthy decision for the game, as now we have the Bomb lance, bows, and all sorts of other fun cool but not necessarily "balanced" gear, solo necro falls into that category, it's just not "fun" for a solo player to run around and clue for 15 minutes to get headshot from outside their FoV because three sets of eyes were looking for him and one saw him while he only has one. They are always going to make the decision that in their eyes will keep players playing the game and the reality is that since the introduction of solo necro originally locked behind a pact, players loved it and the game hit peak concurrent users on steam. The game with a 400ms trade window is not competitive and never will be so just enjoy the game and have fun with it since that's what games are for.
The player base is notoriously opposed to any type of change, be it for better or for worse beetles for example were going to "ruin hunt showdown" in so many posts and the game still has more players than ever.
I play solo and I often don't run necro, it's pretty mid tbh and if I die as a solo I'd rather just load up another game and try to wipe a different team rather than sit and wait to self rez while listening for the rustling of their footsteps as they body camp. It's just that much more fun for me when I do die and hear them setting 9 traps just for me to hit the exit game button. And if someone else is having fun sitting their listening to footsteps to tap that self revive button, well good on them.

[–]Critical_Ad5443 1 point2 points3 points 11 days ago (1 child)
I will state... Watching a guy camp my body for 20 mins is kinda funny.
And ya, team Necro started getting annoying for me recently because they start casting it almost instantly... But you do get a sound alert (them entering dark sight) which I sometimes wish was a little louder but that's me being annoyed.
Still... Easiest solution? Why not turn it into a burn trait? Cuz at the end of the day, the provlem is having a guy constantly stand up forcing you to body camp is no fun regardless.



[–]AntBackground4684 0 points1 point2 points 28 days ago (12 children)
No, you having to come up with hypotheticals is still far more embarrassing. That's really reaching for straws. You can trap and revive before they have time to get back up. Even in your hypothetical where you're completely overwhelmed, they're still missing health, just chest tap them. If you're already surrounded by the server sounds like you put yourself so deep in shit a solo necroing isn't your biggest problem nor your ultimate downfall. Maybe you should reposition and have the other teams swarming you fight the solo in this hypothetical and necro your team mates from a hiding spot while they're busy. Hypothetically. Solo necro is only controversial here on the reddit, any other forum anyone who has complained about it has been laughed at because its so easy to deal with. I have never been team wiped by a solo and never will, I enjoy farming all the extra kills, though.

[–]Calix19 2 points3 points4 points 28 days ago (5 children)
Google rumbled your bullshit in about 8 seconds.  A quick search brings up multiple forums like Steam where people are frustrated with the exact same things.  There’s nothing hypothetical about any of this.

[–]AntBackground4684 0 points1 point2 points 28 days ago (4 children)
Nah, Steam, the official and every unofficial Discord, 4chan, etc. everyone laughs at the 3 stars unable to stop a solo from getting back up. Reddit is a hugbox safe space for the most casual of players. This megathread is proof of that, a very vocal, casual fan base spamming threads forced this as a containment zone. Have you seen how often streamers like Psychoghost and even Rachta die on a regular basis despite all these supposed odds stacked in the favor of solos? They have to play all day to get half decent videos slapped together. The few Crytek devs that actually play the game know how easy it is to deal with solo revive, they've already watered down so much of the game to attract casual players, they'll support their streamers and smarter players on this one point.

[–]Calix19 2 points3 points4 points 28 days ago (3 children)
And there it is.  The elitist stance of laughing at lower MMR players and claiming it’s only their problem.  Which is exactly why these people love this perk and beating up on lesser skilled players.  I honestly don’t care if any streamer plays all day and doesn’t get a single clip for their viewers and channel.  You’re proving my point about streamers and wannabes.
That’s not even the biggest problem with it.  Having to camp them, find traps, watch the body, or empty the ammo in their guns is just not a fun game flow.
Maybe my comments haven’t conveyed my stance accurately enough.  I think there is a spot somewhere in the game for this park, but not in this current state.  It needs tuning.

[–]AntBackground4684 1 point2 points3 points 28 days ago (2 children)
Then come up with suggestions because all the complaining is not constructive or logical. The only argument is that its not fun for unskilled teams because they've only seen what a competent solo can do and not how annoying a competent team can be with necro. Elitist would be saying git gud, you don't even have to be good at the game, just competent. Not a single intelligent player has griped in these threads, its all lazy entitled 3 stars.

[–]Calix19 2 points3 points4 points 28 days ago (1 child)
You can’t say it’s not being elitist and then turn around and say it’s only a problem for lazy and entitled three star players.  AND saying that everyone with complaints is not intelligent.  That’s pretty much the exact definition of elitism.
Earlier you said that solo he to being effective is a stupid tax.  Maybe we should call the penalty to solo players an asshole tax if they can’t make actual friends or play nice with randoms.

[–]AntBackground4684 0 points1 point2 points 27 days ago (0 children)
Lmao yes I can, I'm not asking you to play a tune, just be familiar with the keys. The concerns of 3 stars are pointless because they all have simple solutions. I know what it was like being an inexperienced player and I wouldn't have improved if I started acting entitled and demanding a fix to something that isn't broken just because I don't know how to play around it. 
Meanwhile you do not have the experience of a 6 star or playing solo. Solos don't play solo out of necessity because they can't find friends. They do it because they want to. The game is all about smart positioning so playing solo is far more effective unless you have a well coordinated team and everyone knows what to do at any given time. In games where people aim to third party other fights the ability to quickly disengage and reposition is invaluable. Such a bizarre illogical strawman, "play nice with randoms" lmao they don't play nice with each other.

[–]Lewk_io 0 points1 point2 points 27 days ago (5 children)
You absolutely cannot put a trap on a body and revive a team mate in 7 seconds what fucking coolaid are you drinking lmfao









[–]ValourCat 42 points43 points44 points 1 month ago (2 children)
I don't want to die to someone I've killed 6 times. That is all.

[–]Kegheimer 10 points11 points12 points 29 days ago (1 child)
Same could be said for the solo player fighting a trio

[–]ValourCat 12 points13 points14 points 29 days ago (0 children)
I'm commenting as a solo player. I'd rather do away with necromancer entirely if it was an option!

[–]LogicalLetterhead272 34 points35 points36 points 1 month ago (15 children)
I think it's important to break down when solo self-revive actually works, and discuss which ones are OP, pointless, or bad/good for the game. Here's the situations I can think of, but please add more if I forgot any:
Trade windows. Self-rez always works if you trade with the last person on an enemy team.
The team that killed you forgot to stop your self-rez, doesn't know about the mechanic, or is out of the equipment to burn/trap you. 
Teaming. You team up with another solo, so the team that kills you thinks you're a duo and doesn't burn/trap you.
Third partying. A team killed you, but another team attacks them immediately after, so they can't trap/burn you. 
The team that killed you doesn't have time to burn you or else a team running off with the bounty will extract. 
You died to zombies lmao

[–]LogicalLetterhead272 21 points22 points23 points 1 month ago (7 children)
Here's what I think of self-rez in each situation:
It's broken. Trades are already a big issue and using self-rez to come out on top because of a bug is practically an exploit.
No mechanic should rely solely on someone forgetting about it. It's not OP, but it's just a bad and boring mechanic if you need someone to forget about it to work, or for them to be out of supplies.
This is very rare, but OP when it happens. Solos have nothing to lose by teaming up (besides worrying the other guy is going to kill you) and a duo that can each revive themselves is broken.
While this at least has some nuance with deciding exactly when to revive, this requires another team to essentially come and save you. Sure, third partying is a core part of Hunt and any extraction shooter, but a mechanic that relies on this to happen isn't good for the game IMO.
This can happen with teams too, but at least there's another hunter you can fight to speed this up. In the case of solos you absolutely have to wait, which isn't fun. Having to choose between risking being shot in the back and giving up a bounty, when you already won a fight, is punishing for no reason.
This is fine. A screwy combination of mobs kills even seasoned players now and again, but teams will never have to worry about this ending their entire match, it's fair that solos get insurance against this.

[–]Lentor Crow 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago* (4 children)
If they wanted to they could make all trades disappear but that would cause shots getting deleted. And people would complain "why did he get the kill and my shot did not register"
Basically if you shoot on your screen but were not dead on your screen your shot is probably going to register. (Within a certain time frame)
I agree with the rest you say

[–]ShadowHawk1080 1 point2 points3 points 24 days ago (1 child)
In the roadmap video the news dwarf said they're doing something with the servers specifically because trades aren't working as they should right now. The shots shouldn't and won't get deleted when they're already travelling, the issue with trades is literally seeing the enemy hunters body hit the ground and then their gun goes off and kills you. That variety of trade is all desync which beyond improving servers and potentially regionlocking they don't have control over.

[–]Lentor Crow 1 point2 points3 points 24 days ago (0 children)
Ok. So you shoot a guy he dies and then as his body hits the floor you die. The issue is that from that guys perspective he was not dead when he shot you. His bullet did not get deleted because he was alive when he shot it on his end. For you it looks like desync bullshit. For him it might look the same just the other way round eg you die and then shoot him. Who knows who is right in this....

[–]Metalped -1 points0 points1 point 11 days ago (1 child)
Crytek didn't make it that way, otherwise they wouldn't be working on a system to fix it as stated in the last information video.





[–]REEL-MULLINS Magna Veritas 14 points15 points16 points 1 month ago (0 children)
You died to zombies lmao
This one here! We all have bad days and even after 5k hours, a pack of dogs at the wrong time can still make you humble.

[–]DerFelix Bootcher 10 points11 points12 points 1 month ago (3 children)
Solo Necro literally just needs a max timer. I don't know which time is well balanced, but for the sake of it let's say you only have 30 seconds to self revive. 
This keeps literally all of the cases that nobody is complaining about like trading or dying to zombies. It CAN also work in situations where your enemies are distracted like third partying. But it stops the boring ass case where people have to sit there burning you for three minutes.

[–]Toradar 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I don't think so. Solo revive was OP in the beginning of the event when a lot of people didnt know what it takes to take care of someone with the infernal pact and solo necromancer. Now the most people know, they place traps, wait from distance so you cannot hear that someone is around and think you could revive, they take fire bombs, traps, concertinas and stuff.
The timer you mention is already in the game: Burning a hunter. And this will be possible again after the event ended.
Changing the trait only because it is strong during the event (after the event you can simply burn every hunter again), is the wrong approach.

[–]AlternativeZucc 2 points3 points4 points 24 days ago (0 children)
Fucking, this, and a limit res limit.
There's no reason I should be getting six kills on the same person.



[–]arsenektzmn -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
I play 2vs3 on weekends and as a solo on other days so I'm on both sides from time to time. Before the event self-rez was fairly balanced, however I wish Crytek would bring back the sound when a player leaves the match. Both for solos and teams.



[–]TheRealPoet 35 points36 points37 points 1 month ago (16 children)
Self-rez makes the game feel too arcade-y for me and kinda ruins a lot of what makes it fun. Nerf it down to one self revive at the very least or get rid of it entirely.

[–]AntBackground4684 7 points8 points9 points 28 days ago (13 children)
Only way that's going to happen is if you can only revive team mates once.

[–]Niev 14 points15 points16 points 20 days ago (2 children)
See I don't get why you guys think solos should be balanced along with duos/trios. Matchmaking exists, and soul survivor mode exists.
Choosing to go solo on a team game means intentionally handicapping yourself, and I don't get why you think you should be on the same power level as a trio.

[–]AntBackground4684 3 points4 points5 points 20 days ago (0 children)
I don't think, I know because I put things under careful consideration. You're talking on a subject you have no experience in. Matchmaking is terribly flawed and it wouldn't work in practice even if it was perfectly balanced, soul survivor is a completely different game, the buffs they've given solos doesn't put them anywhere close to equal footing, just handicapped them less.



[–]TheRealPoet 4 points5 points6 points 13 days ago (9 children)
That’s apples to oranges. There’s no reason a solo should be able to self-rez so many times other than trying to make them as strong as a team. That’s not what you run solos for, solos are meant to be a challenge. Waiting for opportunities to strike, planning ambushes, baiting teams into each others etc etc. 
Having the “Think again, bitch!” mechanic that is solo necro ruins that. It turns it into a situation where you just throw bodies at the problem till you can’t anymore and makes it feel more like Warzone rather than Hunt.





[–]Pensive_Psycho 27 points28 points29 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Just had a gunfight where someone stood up 4 times and the other person stood up 3 times. Trapped the body but didn't matter.
Solo necro has been such an awful change and I really hope they address it soon because game has become much more annoying to play instead of fun

[–]GravityUnstable 157 points158 points159 points 1 month ago (29 children)
currently the 2 issues are solos taking longer to burn, and the mmr reduction. Those 2 factors are, imo, the only real issues with necro. If blazeborn didn't affect downed bodies and the mmr reduction wans't as harsh, solo would be completely fine.

[–]sharpcupcakegod 63 points64 points65 points 1 month ago (9 children)
Yeah this, solo necro with a full 10 second revive is pretty balanced imo but being unable to burn bodies is really gamebreaking.

[+]lifeisgood789 comment score below threshold-9 points-8 points-7 points 1 month ago (8 children)
You can burn the downed hunter with a fire bomb. 
Blazeborne is a really good trait, but i guess that‘s what crytek wanted for the time of the event and it will be gone after.

[–]sharpcupcakegod 13 points14 points15 points 1 month ago (6 children)
You can do a considerable amount of damage with a fire bomb but a single firebomb won't burn someone out completely I've seen rachta get up with 75hp after the firebomb fizzled out and then used rampage to wipe the trio that was still in compound lol

[+]lifeisgood789 comment score below threshold-7 points-6 points-5 points 1 month ago (5 children)
Of course it can burn you out - I‘ve been on the receiving end a few times in the last days and they burnt me out. I even had salveskin.

[–]sharpcupcakegod 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (4 children)
Salveskin doesn't stack with blazeborne and perhaps you got farmed a little before getting burned out?

[–]lifeisgood789 -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (3 children)
Ok just wanted to mention that I had it.
Nah I got killed, lost a small bar and they burnt me right after i died. In the first time I was like „nice, I can‘t burn out, because everyone on reddit said that you can‘t burn out with blazeborne“ - then I realized that you actually can burn out^

[+][deleted] 1 month ago (1 child)
[deleted]

[–]alf666 -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Yes, that is exactly what they were trying to say.
They just phrased it poorly.

[–]sharpcupcakegod 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Interesting... I'll keep that in mind.

[–]alf666 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Minor clarification, the hunter itself does not catch fire, but the puddle of fire will still char the HP bars.
The "problem" is that the puddle of fire doesn't stay around long enough to fully char away 125 HP worth of bars normally, and especially not if they have Salveskin.
The result is needing to use at least two normal firebombs to maintain the puddle of fire, and unless you bring them in, finding them mid-match is unreliable at best.
This mechanic also appears during heavy rain, if a hunter dies and lands in a puddle of oil that is on fire.
The hunter itself won't catch fire, but their HP can still char and lose bars to that.

[–]YourMaIsYourDa 21 points22 points23 points 1 month ago (7 children)
Completely agree with this, but my main compliant was always the mmr decrease. They basically have the same benefits as a duo, same darksight boost, better serpent, can revive without relaying on someone else putting themselves at risk. Make the 5 and 6 star solos fight 5 and 6 stars teams, you wanna go solo, no need to shit on lower level players.

[–]I-collect-dick-pics 17 points18 points19 points 1 month ago (5 children)
The issue isn't with 5 stars shitting on lower players, the problem is that 5 star will be 3-4 star very quickly due to losing MMR every death so they can lose 5X MMR every match basically guaranteed and fuck the system that way
If they fixed that, the issue would be a lot better

[–]Antaiseito 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (2 children)
will be 3-4 star very quickly due to losing MMR every death so they can lose 5X MMR every match basically guaranteed and fuck the system that way
Absolutely. I stopped using necro because it's no fun to kill players that literally just bought the game after playing mainly solo and yolo reviving a few times with farmers present.
Also it's so hard to increase your MMR again when everyone that kills you is lower MMR already.





[–]Keelyn1984 6 points7 points8 points 1 month ago (0 children)
But then they should also lift the MMR reduction solos get in general. We play as a trio of two 3 stars and one 4 star. When we get solos in our match they often are 5 star players and it's really tough for us to down them because of the individual skill and experience gap.

[–]Teerlys 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago (2 children)
and the mmr reduction wans't as harsh
The weighted piece for solo's is probably fine and right on its own. One player going against 2-3 other players should probably get a half star advantage or so. The real problem there stems from how much MMR shifts and the way in which it does. 
Getting killed by someone lower MMR will plummet your MMR. Getting killed repeatedly could see you dropping a whole star in a match or two. Killing lower ranked players won't raise your MMR very quickly. That exacerbates the problem of better players already going against competition that they're theoretically better than and drops them into an arena where they really shouldn't be.
There are ways for them to fix this, and the roadmap has it listed as coming.
The no burn from Blazeborne is another story though. That really needs to be dropped off once the target is on the ground. It's too good as is.

[–]alf666 22 points23 points24 points 1 month ago* (1 child)
The problem is the weird interaction between "MMR loss on each death", the "MMR handicap for going solo", and the way MMR itself is calculated.
MMR is calculated based on whether you kill or die, and the difference in MMR between you and the person you killed/died to.
In addition, when you queue as a solo, you are almost always matched against players with lower MMR than you, which makes the MMR calculation chart look like this:
The result is that you can only have small MMR increases as a solo, while also only having large MMR decreases.
Combine that with the fact that teams with low MMR won't want to risk a player with higher MMR coming back to haunt them, they will often burn and camp the body to make sure they stay dead.
The result is that the higher MMR solo player with Necro will pick themselves back up after the lantern fire runs out, or after losing another 25 HP bar (which indicates a fire bomb was used, and they literally can't wait for the fire to stop), and then die again to the lower MMR team's guns, resulting in the game running the MMR loss calculation again.
This results in another large MMR loss, which means the high-MMR solo gets placed against even lower-MMR teams in the future as well.



[–]mezdiguida 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Exactly, there's nothing more to add. It's blatant after being killed from a solo that their skill level is way higher than the rest of my team.

[–]Psychological_Pen364 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Facts

[–]Heymelon 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (2 children)
solo would be completely fine
I agree with your comment. But as a solo player I'd raise my 2nd issue which is about the mmr system overall. Yes it is harsh and moves fast for everyone, but often it also values having teammates way to low compared to not having them. 
I can be a low 5* having just reached it the night before then I start playing solos vs duos and meet several duo teams containing a 5* and a 4* together, but the next game without spamming revive I'm ranked 4* again if I loose. So I just met a duo with one player at my skill level-ish plus another person around that level?
So I think the solo matchmaking at it's base kinda incentivizes a lot of people to spam revive to loose mmr at times as it stands currently. Or maybe just remove the stars to make it more clear to people what number are given to the opposition they are facing. Either way I think we obviously rank up or down way to fast and that the system that is based on 1v1 chess can't be copy pasted into this environment.



[–]Begformymoney 1 point2 points3 points 23 days ago (0 children)
Should make blazeborn obsolete when downed and only active while alive. Would make burning someone viable, but also still make using fire to heal effective.

[–]Grimmiky -3 points-2 points-1 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Completely agree. Those are the actual problems that need to be fixed.
Although I can to an extent understand the frustration of being killed by someone you just killed. Maybe respawning at the edge of the map instead of just standing up where you died could help.



[–]Heinzold 19 points20 points21 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I absolutely despise solo necro and everything related to it. Let the solos keep it but give me the option to exclusively queue up against other duos/trios. They can choose not to play with a party and ignroe the search a random teammate function. Then I should be able to choose not to play against solos.

[–]jlapetra 2 points3 points4 points 10 days ago (0 children)
They can choose not to play with a party and ignroe the search a random teammate function. Then I should be able to choose not to play against solos.
This right here! I rather wait an extra 5 minute in the queue for a match against only teams, than wasting a match baby siting a solo body to ensure he really "Died".

[–]hello-jello 22 points23 points24 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I'm getting done with you zombie solos. 
I'm tired of watching bodies. I killed you. Be dead. 
Let me hold a key down when I'm done looting you to finish you off.
The end.

[–]_ThomasEll Crow 2 points3 points4 points 23 days ago (0 children)
Only if we can have the same key to finish off each member of a trio!

[–]SatanicStarlet 19 points20 points21 points 24 days ago* (0 children)
It's honestly destroying my desire to play the game. I play 75% solo and I'd rather deal with a duo than another solo I have to glue my eyes onto for 10 minutes through multiple burnings in the hopes they don't have it.
When 'just take it yourself' is the fix for this broken garbage, it's not exactly great.
There needs to be an incentive for you to not hold it for ages.

[–]sklute 21 points22 points23 points 20 days ago (2 children)
IMO, just remove Necro entirely.

[–]pillbinge Bloodless  7 points8 points9 points 14 days ago (0 children)
The game was so much better when you had to make a valiant play to save your partner or go down trying. Most Necro plays in our experience end in us killing the team anyway, but also having to kill someone again before they can even get up.

[–]Fair_Raccoon9333 1 point2 points3 points 12 days ago (0 children)
I have been team Necroed into instant death probably 80-90% of the time it has been used.  Teammates literally don't care if they feed you.  They think they are being heroic or collected 500xp or whatever.
I've started to just alt-f4 when teammates mindlessly necro me without doing anything to improve the situation or consider the likeliness of a success.

[–]rellarella 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago (0 children)
i dont think hunt showdown needs more mandatory camping zones

[–]KaijuKi 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago (0 children)
The number of solos that are playing 5 star level, de-ranking into 3 star games, make burning/trapping/camping every single solo absolutely paramount. When I play with me buddies (me 4 star, they 3 star casuals), if we manage to take down a 5-star level solo, and just leave him be - the chances are good he ll just kill both of us.
The amount of iron sight headshots at 80+ metres into cover, through windows walls and with kill views where I simply dont know how he saw me are already rising quickly, but to deal with significantly stronger players despite matchmaking means burning out necros is a must.
Another factor: Most necromancers have a big lineup of skills because its super easy to save your hunter in the current event - not quite death cheat level, but if you play it careful, you just leave after 2 deaths and thats it. Teams often have to go in with fresh hunters.

[+][deleted] 13 points14 points15 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I made a post previously so I'll copy and paste that in here but I'll add some points afterwards.
Look, I get it. Solos have a disadvantage in the game against 2-3 players. It's obvious why. 
But my friend bought this game a day ago, and the first person we encounter was a solo. So we kill him. He gets back up after a second. Even after I placed concertina wire on him, it didn't really do anything to him because of the pact buff. But it's fine. I killed him again. So we went ahead and moved on because we need to get to the bounty. And then we encounter another team and they burn us both pretty good, so our health bars are fucked. Guess who ends up finishing us off? It's the solo Necro. He revived for the THIRD TIME. This is really not a good first impression of the game, and it kinda is a deceptive impression also, because this is not what hunt showdown is really described as. It feels like I'm being punished, and also my first time player friend is also being punished for beating this guy fair and square - he won because of this trait that lets him literally avoid death. That's not how I learned to play this game as a solo, and I have 400hrs on steam - I learned this game in a way that punished me for my mistakes. And I felt like it really paid off.
Another time, I was playing with my fiancee, and I end up killing this guy 3 times (he was quite far away) with really well placed shots. He had a Mosin. Eventually we extract and I look at my kills, of course it says hunters killed 3 times and then I look at the team information, guess what? I apparently didn't kill him. Because he had solo Necro, so he revived and extracted. He literally couldn't down us once and I killed him 3 times and he is getting a free pass for that. I feel unrewarded for my kill.
I get it. Solos have a huge disadvantage. But you really can't tell me that this is an okay meta lol. I don't feel like camping bodies, and I don't feel like going 150 meters away to check if the solo is still dead or not. When I kill someone, I kill someone. If they have a teammate, then fine, they can revive them and I can kill them too. And if it's a solo, then that's their choice to be a solo, and if they die that should either be it or something needs to be modified about the solo Necro trait, because right now with the pacts especially, it is incredibly broken and annoying. Sorry for the rant but yeah, I'm really questioning and have been questioning the choices that are being made for this game (I love this game a lot and I'm kinda concerned about what it's turning into)
. . .
To add more of my opinions, I don't think solo Necro is only the problem. I think Necro in general is quite a problematic trait. I don't really think it's a fair, because it's too forgiving. If someone dies in a shit spot, that's on them. And other times it's on luck. We all face luck. And we all die in shit spots occasionally. And if we don't have a teammate that can clutch, then they will die. That's on us, that's the real skill issue. And I don't think anyone should be babied for that because when you fuck up in this game you need to remember it and it needs to hit you hard. So I think Necro in general should be removed and before anyone calls me a hypocrite, no, I never use Necro even when I play solo and even when I play with friends because I think it's a bullshit trait. If I fuck up that's on me.
My friend who bought the game (previously mentioned) would say that he is thinking about just not touching this game anymore, he loves everything about this game except the fact that we would die due what we consider, cheap and pretty unfun tactics used by solo players and in which we would have to respond in cheap and unfun ways to them (emptying their guns, placing traps and camping them so they don't get up. And they still did of course) This game isn't in early access anymore and I think making a huge change to the game isn't just a discussion of meta anymore, this literally alters gameplay. It is a discussion of how the gameplay has changed before and after solo Necro and it has changed for the worse, because simply, it is unfun and time consuming and it punishes skill and rewards failure because they can later get up and ambush you even after you've left and they'll trail behind you and kill you. The goal of the stalker beetle was to be an anti camping mechanic, but then they added solo Necro and I see people camping more, and more, and more because they know that if they manage to finally get a lucky shot on us after missing 10 times from a really far range away, we will die. And if they don't hit us, then it's fine because if they do die, they know that we really don't wanna go over to their corpse and check if they're there still. They'll get back up, keep dying, and eventually they'll get us. Of course they will. And if it's not that, then you have the other kind of player, who pretty much acknowledges that they're semi immortal, and they do reckless shit on purpose like rushes that they know will get them killed because if they die they can alt tab and watch something or whatever and then they can come back alive and either escape with their hunter or kill us. How is this fun? 
And fun is a whole other thing honestly, that's just a general rule in games, is that it's supposed to be fun. We aren't really having fun when we know that a solo is basically unkillable. It slows the gameplay to a fucking turtle pace forcing us to camp them ESPECIALLY because of this event. It's exhausting, and not in a good way. It's exhausting in a way where I feel like my time put in to the game, and my time which is being put into the game is not being respected. Those are just my feelings and for what it's worth, I they I have some valid points.
Before it boils down to people antagonizing eachother for "skill issue", I wanna point out that if you die to me and you are so unconfident in your skill that you have to take a trait that revives you whenever you want, not only that but only take small health bars, who is really less dependant on skill at this point? You have like 4 lives. What are you a fucking cat? It's just not fun fighting against these people for five matches in a row and it's exhausting and demoralizing and I think the devs were trying to draw in a larger audience with this by making the game more casual, but from my experience it really does make the majority of the people I play with just frustrated instead of being inclined to play this game. I had to basically beg my friend not give up on this game and I told him hopefully this is just a limited time modification to the trait.
Coming back to this game every few months is honestly a whiplash. The changes the devs make in this game are really really confusing to me. I love this game but I think solo necro (and Necro in general) is too problematic to remain in the game. They need to either go or be modified heavily. Solo Necro turns this game from hunt showdown to call of duty zombies. Death is of no real consequence to anyone who has this trait and they know it. And I know there are certain people who are shit at this game (it's fine, we are all shit really) and they want this trait to stay like this, but honestly, if it's removed, you'll live and you'll be okay, overtime you will improve and you will not die as much. It really is a tough game to learn, but meanwhile, me and my teammates have to take entire loadouts based on securing solo necro corpses. And I'm telling you, without fail, every solo I encountered today has been a Necro user. You can get better, but you cannot expect people to be okay with having to base entire loadouts around how to nerf your immortality, that is ridiculous.
Basically, I think this trait is shit, and it's unfun, and it doesn't reward skill, and it encourages literally the worst parts of this game. I'm sorry if you don't agree or if I've been rude and offended anyone. And sorry for the ranty nature of the comment. I really love this game, I love it so much, but the changes made to this game are confusing to me. They are just confusing to me.

[–]hello-jello 13 points14 points15 points 27 days ago (0 children)
killed a solo today on a roof top - dead. Threw wire on her body. That should be the end of it.... Nope. She got up again and stayed alive through the wire and we shot her again. Poison, more wire. Then got up again.
Nerf this nonsense.

[–]TrollOfGod 12 points13 points14 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Make Necro a burn trait OR give it an upper time limit(of 30 seconds perhaps after it becomes available). For both solos and teams of course.

[–]Shotski 13 points14 points15 points 1 month ago (3 children)
I've just played the game for the first time in a while, and had no idea about this self revive thing until after I experienced it in game and looked it up.
Had a great round just now - downed 6 players, picked up a bounty and was extracting, then this guy...
https://i.imgur.com/sLPVrrD.jpg
I killed him at 11 minutes, put 3x alert trip mines on his body, which I thought was a recommended thing to do - isn't that supposed to damage and burn him so he dies when he revives or something?
Then after picking up a bounty later while heading towards extraction he came at me again and I killed him - and I thought sure, another player with the same legendary hunter, no big deal.
https://i.imgur.com/Xk7ecqh.jpg
Then he stands up less than 20 seconds later and shoots me again, and it was the same guy all along?!
Without bringing multiple fire bombs into a round (I'd already burnt a different solo's body earlier in the round so had run out) how am I supposed to deal with this - just sit and watch bodies?

[–]Glittering_Usual_162 1 point2 points3 points 14 days ago (0 children)
Only 3 self revives? Those are Rookie numbers.
Try 6 and burning him 3 times



[–]yayitsdan 12 points13 points14 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I don't know if there's anything I can add that hasn't already been said, but I just wanted to say that Necro, especially the state that it's in, is making me play the game less. The game is less fun to play because of it.

[–]The_Snee 11 points12 points13 points 28 days ago (2 children)
Aside from balance, aside from MMRs, aside from "you can just" arguments, the solo necro has one major issue worse than any other: It wastes my time.
Being obliged to camp a body for however long to avoid being shot in the back was tedious even before the event. If I have to sit on a corpse for a long time to make sure it's dead I want a bounty token out of it.

[–]pillbinge Bloodless  4 points5 points6 points 14 days ago (1 child)
It's egregious that someone taking a trait like Necro for only a handful of points puts an outsized burden on another team like this. It's mostly a time-waster now that we're used to it. I'm sure it leads to some barn burners at lower levels, and I died to a solo Necro early on when it was just becoming a thing, but right now, it's played out and tedious. It puts the winning team at several disadvantages which, even if they change nothing, just then amount to a total drag on the game. Not fun.



[–]Bobylein 11 points12 points13 points 22 days ago (0 children)
Limit the revive time to a minute or make it a burn trait, it's currently exhausting

[–]kalkin55 10 points11 points12 points 22 days ago (0 children)
Necromancer should be a Burn Trait, Stackable max 2 times, at a cost of  3 points per use. Solves several key problems with Necromancer:

[–]Waesche72 11 points12 points13 points 20 days ago (1 child)
To be honest, i just play the event until i got my points to complete the battle pass.
When i'm done with the weekly quests, i'm done with hunt for the week.
Necro, Blazeburn, Bloodless, Resillience and an antidote shot and one guy can ruin the game for all others.
I'm an old man. When i kill a solo i burn the body till its burnt out. If i can't burn him, i guard his body to the end of the match while i dream from a game that maybe finds back to his wonderful roots.

[–]Glittering_Usual_162 1 point2 points3 points 13 days ago (0 children)
Finished the eventpass now, i think im done with Hunt for the next 26 days.
Having had to kill someone 6 times and actually going down to him twice because he survives a mosin bodyshot after being down 3 times already drained literally all fun i had in this game

[–]Kuldor 9 points10 points11 points 19 days ago (0 children)
Makes no sense the amount of pressure a solo can create for any other player even without necro, just because necro exists.
You just killed a guy that was solo? Great, what do you do now? Time to watch that corpse for a while even if it doesn't have necro, because you just don't know and can't risk getting shot in the back in 2 minutes.
The event has made this 10 times worse given now a necro can survive through anything you put on him that's not a direct shot.

[–]Temporal_Enigma 8 points9 points10 points 22 days ago (2 children)
I just had a situation where a dude was spamming explosive crossbow bolts in the prison and killed my brother and I. My brother managed to trade with him, but if he has necro, he can revive with literally no penalty to that fight. 
He had every advantage and it's unfair

[–]KaeptNstyle 2 points3 points4 points 12 days ago (1 child)
Well if you hadn't BOTH died to a crossbow-solo, you could have revived your teammate after the trade before the solo had a chance to get up. I don't see how he had the advantage in a 1vs2 and how its not fair that he walked away from the confrontation you described. If he'd had a teammate the outcome - for you and for him - would have been exactly the same.

[–]Temporal_Enigma 1 point2 points3 points 12 days ago (0 children)
He has the biggest noob toob weapon in the game. Good luck NOT dying to that

[–]SatanicStarlet 7 points8 points9 points 26 days ago (2 children)
Don't really care about necro or even the perk stacking. The problem with it to me feels that you can hold it indefinitely. Why not burn health whilst you're down, even if slowly? Sick of burning people, trapping them, watching them for five minutes and eventually leaving, only for them to get up 10 minutes later and come shoot me in the back. It sucks. It doubly sucks when burning with infernal pact feels like a waste of time.

[–]wizardsuckbot 1 point2 points3 points 26 days ago (1 child)
I've actually taken to bringing in necro and only reviving once. If I get immediately killed again, I leave the game and my opponent now KNOWS I had necro but I'll never stand up again.



[–]g_phonehome 9 points10 points11 points 14 days ago (1 child)
Is this shitty perk still a thing? Want to get back to playing with my best friend but necromancer in duos produces insane amount of Paranoia



[–]Glittering_Usual_162 8 points9 points10 points 13 days ago* (0 children)
Hear me out here...
Que for solo play only and a que for teams only
So the solo players can enjoy their fun and balanced necro perk and kill each other 6 times every gunfight
And the Team Players dont have to wait 5 minutes camping every corpse incase he might be a solo necro

[–]Mysterious_Chef_6956 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago* (1 child)
I think dying in a game about permadeath should be punished.
Simple as.
​
Though on a more in-depth level, I think either the MMR reduction or the cash bonus should be removed if they're just going to keep heaping outrageous advantages onto solos, preferably the MMR reduction.
We all need to remember that playing as a solo VS trios, and the payment bonus associated with that game mode, was added LONG before any sort of solo-only perks existed. There was no extended darksight timer, there was no self revive, there was nothing and nada that a solo player had over their enemies other than slightly easier stealth, and even then thats an arguable point.
So they had an MMR reduction to compensate, alright, fine. Personally, I think the entire point of a matchmaking system is to have equally-skilled players face eachother no matter what, and that messing with such a delicate system for the sake of in-game balance completely misses the point of a matchmaking system, but at the very least the idea of giving solos a skill advantage to make up for their mechanical disadvantage makes sense.
But the issue comes in the fact that such a mechanical disadvantage arguably does not exist anymore.
Solos can self res. Solos with the right perks are unable to be simply permakilled via trapping or burning and must be whittled down with as many as 5 deaths, making them a very persistent and nearly impossible to kill threat, or even more if they managed to score a restoration. Solos can steal darksight from further away with serpent and gain even more darksight from holding bounty.
I fully believe that a fully kitted out solo is a near equal mechanical match for a trio of any equal skill level, and thus should not receieve an advantage that was designed for them at a point in the games development where such an equality did not exist.
Solos are not the underdogs anymore, they should not be treated as such.

[–]Antaiseito 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I think dying in a game about permadeath should be punished.
As a mainly solo player i agree.
Have stopped using necro because sitting there waiting or gambling whether the other person knows/has the stuff to keep me down is boring. Just getting into the next game felt pretty refreshing. 
Coupled with the MMR reduction if you yolo revive against people with already lower MMR it's a real problem imo.

[–]hello-jello 7 points8 points9 points 25 days ago (0 children)
Tonight my team had to kill a solo (1 star ahead of us) 7 times.
SEVEN.
I threw wire on him. Teammate put poison traps.
This game actually sucks right now because of this. Take the Necromancer trait out of the game completely or let me complete an action on the body to neutralize the trait.

[–]BestPlaugeDoctor 7 points8 points9 points 22 days ago (0 children)
Honestly, I could do away with necromancer completely. Solo necro is annoying for sure, but I don't enjoy watching staring at bodies in any case. The game was more punishing before when you had to res by hand for sure, but I don't think that was a bad thing. Makes for higher pressure revives, and more creative solutions than "let's just res him and hope he survives".

[–]Pbear420 13 points14 points15 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I know this is probably a unpopular opinion and honestly I don't care. I think solo+necro in its entirety is absolutely stupid. Its the most obnoxious thing in this game. If your solo maybe get only 1 necro and that's it. If you don't make it with that then your not that guy. It completely nullifies the fact that going in 1v3s is supposed to be challenging.

[–]quinxkun 25 points26 points27 points 1 month ago* (4 children)
The 2 objective problems with necromancer, specifically solo necromancer that made it a tedious thing to deal with are other systems in the game or event related changes which is indicated by the amount of reddit posts made ever since the event started.
MMR Decay: We've already got confirmation in the roadmap video that the MMR system is being looked at and reworked in next year (I think?). My idea to fix MMR Decay abuse is to make multiple deaths in a single game decrease MMR by less and less each time.
Example:
- Currently: Dying 3x in a row, you lose 50MMR points.
- Updated: Dying 3x in a row, you lose 50MMR on the first, 20MMR on the second, 5 MMR on the last. (Numbers are just made up)
Blazeborn: Blazeborn is the spawn of most of the posts that we've seen in the past couple of days. The problem that you don't even have the option to burn a solo player as a whole is the core problem. Changing Blazeborn to where the effect only applies to players that are alive and not downed would get rid of this complaint immediatly.

[–]Teerlys 14 points15 points16 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Very much agreed. MMR volatility is the largest problem in general. More recently the Blazeborn trait is the crux of the latest outcry. Justifiably too. I solo a lot. When I do I'm running:
I need just one win, and once I have that the only solution to putting me down and keeping me there is dropping a Fire Bomb (specifically, not a Hellfire or any other fire that doesn't last forever) on my body and watching it. You don't have a Firebomb or you let me get up and shift out of the fire just enough? There's very little else you can do. A single lantern won't even take a full 25 chunk off. A concertina bomb won't drop me and I'll heal automatically as the bleeds fall off thanks to the Regen shot. Poison won't do anything.
Necromancer was mostly fine before the event, barring the issue with MMR plummeting even when you're mostly winning, but removing the most common tool to deal with a solo and force the revive or go back to lobby really needs to be fixed.

[–]Lentor Crow 8 points9 points10 points 1 month ago* (1 child)
I think that the event highlights that solo necro does not play well with other mechanics that are fine on their own.
Infernal, without solo necro yeah it is incredibly strong, like death cheat in the first pact event was incredibly strong to the point where what 80% of people pledged to that pact. With solo necro, Infernal is broken because like you said there is no way to efficiently deal with a downed solo.
The MMR thing (independent from event), without solo necro it takes effort to exploit reviving to downrank, you need a willing team mate and a willing enemy. With solo you basically only need an unwilling enemy (what is he gonna do not kill you and get killed by you?)
​
I think solo necro needs an easy way to be completely blocked no matter what. Say self revive gets disabled after the body is looted. Then it would still be useful in a hectic fight with multiple teams, or when the solo gets killed on long range. But if a solo gets killed in close range and there is no one around the team can just loot him and move on. Even if they kill a solo in close range but don't know he is a solo and think "maybe there is someone else still in the bushes" and play it safe the solo might get a chance to get up again and try again.





[–]Gullible-Number-965 6 points7 points8 points 25 days ago (0 children)
I originally liked this as a solo player, but playing against other solos makes for an extremely boring match.

[–]Pyrlor 5 points6 points7 points 15 days ago (0 children)
necro should be one time use only, after solo revive it should disappear, change my mind

[–]Some-Sheepherder-465 90 points91 points92 points 1 month ago (69 children)
It unfortunately doesn't have an easy solution.
I play both solo and with two friends. When I'm solo playing against 4 and 5 stars, without it I'm unlikely to ever be good enough to have a chance. Dont get me wrong I can teamwipe a team of 4 stars etc but odds are they will kill me at least once. 
At the same time playing against a solo with it is horrible. Everyone that says "just leave him" is delusional. The amount of times I've been left alone, got up and then hunted them down for a teamwipe I've lost count. You cannot leave a solo alone and you have to expect he is better than you.

[+]LeftRedEye 22 points23 points24 points 1 month ago (8 children)
A solo is definitely better because he gets matchmaked against easier opponents. His matchmaking mmr drops by 0.5 vs duos and by 1 matchmaking mmr vs trios. A 5 star solo might get a lobby full of 3 star trios.

[–]green0wnz 14 points15 points16 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Maybe the solo’s MMR shouldn’t drop vs duos and trios if the solo has Necro?

[–]Teerlys 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (5 children)
MMR is too volatile and manipulatable to be a very valid metric to judge much off of right now. Once they make their adjustments it'll be more relevant, but I've seen near enough 2 KDA players sitting at 3 stars enough times that 4 star could run the gamut of a 20 hour player to a god tier streamer.

[–]Lycanthoth 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
There's exceptions like with what you described, but that isn't the norm. In most cases, solo play is the reason for outliers like that since any death likely means a huge MMR drop. In normal circumstances, a mid-high 5* would need an entire night of horrible games to even come close to 3 or 4.





[–]Arch00 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago* (2 children)
I play solo at 4-5 stars level and I just leave them.. in 500 hours over the past 3 months I can remember them getting revenge on me only twice. Ofc I try to throw a trap down before leaving so I have an audible warning they are up if I'm still close by. 
It really isn't that bad at all. I don't think I'm delusional..

[–]I-collect-dick-pics 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
yeah, I mean this is it, literally all there is
I've had teams camp my dead body as a solo for 15+ minutes before and I just don't get the mentality
As a duo or trio, you outnumber them, they are down a bar, and it's just not that big of a deal

[–]No-Sherbet8709 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
This.
Since solo res has been a thing, according to the match debrief screen that shows who killed who, as a solo I have been killed by another solo that I had previously downed and left a total of 3 or 4 times, and as a trio with my friends we have never once been team wiped by one. 
We / I do this all the time, as solo or in our trio I only ever make sure they're dead dead if I have to stay in the area because of boss / other teams, or we have bounty and are heading to extract and no longer have a bunch of traps to drop on them. All other circumstances we generally trap and/or burn, watch them for a few seconds to cover the instant revives, then just carry on with the game. 
If you take all of those rounds played into account (50+ a week) for what is probably about a year now (anyone remember when it became a thing?), solo revive has been my undoing in way less than 1% of them, and only when I've been solo myself. It really isn't remotely an issue IMO.

[–]MoG_Varos 14 points15 points16 points 1 month ago (15 children)
Ya you can’t leave a solo alone, so you gotta burn him out. Which already took awhile but now it takes fucking forever. Otherwise you’re just asking to get shot in the back, which now acts like a banish for the solo.
It just slows the whole game down and completely derails the gameplay loop.

[–]lifeisgood789 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (13 children)
It is only for the period of the event. Don‘t act as if the blazeborne trait is permanently implemented in the game. Just bring a fire bomb if you are so annoyed by the solos.

[–]booshmagoosh 14 points15 points16 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Necro self-revive was once "only for the period of the event." 
Regardless, saying "don't worry, the game balance will only be completely busted for like a month or two" is not a good justification. Events are when new players arrive and old players return. This is the literal last time you should want the game to be broken.

[–]lifeisgood789 -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
The balance is not „completely busted“ because of this change bro. Pls don‘t exaggerate like some other guys in this sub who act like playing as a solo is like a walk in the park and you are being granted a free win every round. You are still in a clutch situation right from the start of the game.

[–]MoG_Varos -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (10 children)
Even after the event the point still stands, you gotta stand around waiting for him to burn before you move on.
It’s just even worse now because Crytek has zero foresight Lul.

[–]you_are_invited 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (9 children)
You have to do the same with a team if you down a hunter and the teammate is hiding. What is with this selective outrage over watching bodies?

[–]MoG_Varos -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (8 children)
Because once I down a team it’s over, but it’s not over with a solo until he’s burnt.
And there’s a big difference between burning a guy while I hunt his teammates and burning a solo while I watch YouTube for a few mins.
You guys always act like every team has this mystery third teammate who just hides and auto Necros so it’s all the same. They don’t.

[–]you_are_invited 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (7 children)
You're watching a body whether you hunt for the teammate or not. Just burn it and move on. Y'all are acting like every round a solo comes in and obliterates the server after self rezing. I literally never play solo, and in all my matches playing in teams, I couldn't tell you one time where a solo self rezing was an issue for me. Usually they just want to extract and start over with full bars.

[–]MoG_Varos 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (6 children)
Do..do you believe necro has infinite range or something? Is that the disconnect? Or do you believe everyone builds their loadout to abuse necro? Not like someone can necro a teammate from across the map and it makes a clear and obvious sound when someone goes into dark sight.
I’m not physically watching a body if I know he has teammates. I mean really, no one is acting like solos are wiping lobbies just that they slow the pace to a crawl.
You down a solo you know he has poison resist, bleed resist, resilience, salve skin, and can necro whenever he wants. The dude built himself for it, randos teaming up together don’t put that much thought into it.
Y’all acting like every team is a trio in discord running full 50s while 1 guy hides in a corner every fight to abuse necro.

[–]you_are_invited 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (5 children)
I very clearly know what the range and limitations are for necro. You're saying if you down a hunter, and they have a teammate that you can't find, you're not waiting near the body and trying to burn it out? I just don't understand what is difference is here. That downed hunter with a teammate can have all those same status effects/traits as a solo.  It's the same thing. I've been playing HUNT since day 1. I welcomed solo rez, I even think it should be buffed if you're holding a bounty, allowing you to red skull revive yourself.

[–]Lycanthoth 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (4 children)
The difference is that you're not always burning the duo/trio. If you kill all of them, the fights officially over and you move on. Even if you need to burn someone to force a move from the survivors, you're still actively in the fight. This is what happens the majority of the time. 
If you kill and burn a solo, you're doing nothing at all but waiting. You're not conclusively done with them until they're burned out, and you're not doing anything in the meantime. It's just dead time in the match and isn't very fun.





[–]Genin85 14 points15 points16 points 1 month ago (22 children)
Why is it supposed to be "delusional"? If a team kill a solo, is their choice to be the tryhard who stay there untill the fire stop or just procede and play the game. Is it possible that he'll be back and kill the team? Yes. The same as another team can wipe yours, just more difficult. "but at least you know when you wipe a whole team you know it's gone forever". Yes, and how many times you kill a team members and the others disappear just to show up lately? It's the same exact thing. Except it's easier with a single target that already miss health bars.
I don't know in which mmr you use to play, but in mine is way easier to win in a team then as a solo.
Peole know exactly what to do to deal with a solo and what to espect on him. Self revive works just once on ten times.

[–]Lentor Crow 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (2 children)
In my 1000h of hunt less than 10 times has a team mate disappeared to then res his buddies. This is just not a scenario that happens so stop trying to make it a common thing. I have only tried this a handful of times myself. 
When they do it my team burns the bodies and waits (I play randoms a lot and even they do not just move on). AND do you know what the enemy team does when I or my team mate run away to later rez? THEY BURN THE BODIES AND WAIT!!!! It is not "tryhard" behavior because EVERYONE DOES IT. It is the normal way of playing. "Just leave the body" is the weird approach.

[–]REEL-MULLINS Magna Veritas 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
THEY BURN THE BODIES AND WAIT
If this is already what you do, then solo revive isn't an issue. Since you are already burning the bodies and waiting anyway.

[–]Lentor Crow 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Have you missed the part where I said that this situation is so rare? That makes it a non issue. With solos this sitting around and waiting comes up much more frequently at which point it becomes an issue.

[–]destroy_then_search Duck 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago (16 children)
how many times you kill a team members and the others disappear just to show up lately? It's the same exact thing
That happened to me probably twice in 1200 hours of Hunt. Vast majority of players does not play like that because it's boring. Sneaking around? Sure, a lot of people do that when their teammate gets downed. Not the same thing.
You can still find or chase remaining team members and kill them. You can't chase a dead solo.
Team vs team encounters end with one or the other team dying and dropping out of the game except for rare cases. Meanwhile every single solo player is guaranteed 5 lives which can't be simply solved with guns. And now it can't be solved with fire either.

[–]sharpcupcakegod 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (6 children)
A team can rez infinitely with a bounty token though, I do agree about blazeborne though it's unfair otherwise it's balanced.

[–]Echowing442 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (5 children)
Sure, but if you have a bounty token that makes the "find or chase" part even easier, as they'll have a giant dark sight beacon highlighting their location.

[–]sharpcupcakegod -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (4 children)
A solo can't do that, and they only have themselves after they get knocked down and camped. If we remove blazeborne from the equation you have 2 people who can body camp an already weakened solo before burning them. A solo can't shoot someone body camping them.

[–]Lycanthoth 8 points9 points10 points 1 month ago (3 children)
How is this a problem? They knew the odds going in. That's just a consequence of playing solo. It shouldn't be a even 1:1 playing field.



[–]No-Sherbet8709 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (3 children)
How many times in your 1200h has your team been wiped by a solo that you previously downed?

[–]destroy_then_search Duck 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Can't remember if I ever got wiped by a revived solo. Definitely got 3rd partied and died because of that though. Not very often because the addition of self revive turned me into Aerys Targaryen and I burn them all. The real problem that made the only counter ineffective didn't start 1200h ago, it started a week ago.



[–]REEL-MULLINS Magna Veritas -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (2 children)
In my 5k hours of playing, teams missing a player who has fucked off somewhere else happens every other game. This is why we burn all bodies. We will not have your AFK buddy who has sat in a bush for the last 15min come revive you. After we burn their buddies, they usually just extract and only when we get to the team details page did we learn they were a trio and we have to ask ourselves what the hell they doing that whole time?
BURN EVERYONE !!!

[–]KaeptNstyle -1 points0 points1 point 12 days ago (1 child)
Curious question though: What do you get for preventing them from extracting? If you never see the players you killed again in that round, what does it bother you if they saved their hunter or not? You won the fight over them, got rid of them for the rest of your game, you don't get an extra reward for permaburning a hunter except - it seems! - for a kinda questionable, not very friendly satisfaction over successfully destroying someone elses toy.



[+]Genin85 comment score below threshold-6 points-5 points-4 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Doesn't matter how often it happens, even not all solos spend 20 minutes playn dead waiting for something to happen. The point is that both have to choice to do it and this make playn solo more  playable".
How many time it happens to get a random headshot from a bush? With a team they can manage to revive and fight, or kill the player/team and revive. With solo, without self necro, it's done.

[–]destroy_then_search Duck 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Doesn't matter how often it happens
What a ridiculous statement. Of course it matters. If something happens once every 100 games, it won't affect my enjoyment of the game. If it happens every other game, it's a different story.
You tried to build your argument around extremely rare situation and compared it to a very common occurrence. One of them is caused by you failing to kill a player and letting him run (which also applies to solos, they can run too...), the other is caused by badly designed game mechanic.

[+]hi_line_stroker 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Exactly, if you can’t handle the fact that there may be a morbidly injured solo out there that you can one shot you need to play a different game. Players act as though it’s the end of the world when there is a solo out there that they killed already.

[–]Just_Anxiety 10 points11 points12 points 1 month ago* (0 children)
In a game where a single shot can instantly kill you despite having full health, a solo with a single health chunk is just as dangerous as a healthy one.

[+]Potential_Ratio_9355 comment score below threshold-6 points-5 points-4 points 1 month ago* (12 children)
2 Things. 
First: Give Solos a Timer, they can necro between 10 to 30 seconds or 1 minute. After that time without selfrezz they die.
Second: Necromancer will be a burning trait. Not stackable, only one use (similar like a death cheat). This counts for teams and solos.

[–]Genin85 10 points11 points12 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I think a timer for ressing will definetely make it  unusefull. It's already very simple dealing with it, putting a short timer would just killing the hope of the team getting distracted by someone else or leaving to do not waist time. Theese 2 opportunities are basically the 95% of the time self necro can actually give the chance of a comeback, otherwise it's just a free kill for the team.

[–]SilentReavus 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (5 children)
if you make it have a timer then it's completely pointless and you know exactly how long you have to camp. That's a horrible idea.

[–]Potential_Ratio_9355 -5 points-4 points-3 points 1 month ago (4 children)
The timer is about the pace, many people have said that this mechanic to wait is contraproductive and will result in less fights because one team is waiting for better times. With a timer the solo has a little pressure not to wait 10 minutes. I mean if necromancer would be a burning trait (one use) and would cost maybe 6 points, it would be a move in the right direction. Lets say there is no timer, whats your solution that you dont have to bring firebombs and traps only for solos?

[–]SilentReavus 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (3 children)
What exactly is wrong with bringing traps? It's a tactical choice. You either use them on the solo or keep them for reinforcing a banishment.
You have slots for a reason. To use them.

[–]CheekEnough2734 -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Nothing wrong with bringing traps, problem i am solo and have very limited amount tools and consumables. If i bring them i will not save them for a solo player. So if i have wiped a team high chance i dont have fire bomb.(usually burn or/and trap first person i killed) and probably placed 1 or 2 combo trap. Without packmule it is a coin toss what will i get back.

[–]Arch00 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Pack mule should be one of the first traits you pick up after necro and resilience. In your scenarios you should be absolutely flush with replenished traps after looting all of those corpses.

[–]Alaricus100 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Sometimes you don't have a counter. You have to play around it somehow. Camp the body and kill on revive, run away and fight again later, or run to extract. You gotta figure it out while playing to make sure everythibg goes well.

[–]dpulverizer556 6 points7 points8 points 1 month ago (4 children)
Problem is there are a lot of people that have hunters with 100+ trait points. If you make Death Cheat a buyable perk you'd end up with way more maxed out hunters in the bayou

[–]TheLambtonWyrm 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I have 30 hunters saved up with 200+ points each specifically just for when I want a solo hunter who can spam traps 🤭



[–]SpaceCadetStumpy -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I feel like there is a solution that's pretty easy. A body that's on fire can't be revived, it has to be put out first. This let's solos who traded with the final person get up, or those who were sniped, or those in hectic battles, but lets teams have the peace of mind that if they throw a lantern on a solo, it's over. It also stops team necro shenanigans a little bit since they at least have to throw a choke. Manually touching a body still still puts the fire out.
The only other change that would be needed is for blazeborne to only work while the hunter is alive - if you die you can be set on fire.



[–]LimoneSkye 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (3 children)
What about giving the player a debuff upon self necro, that prolongs the time you can self revive if downed again. 
So you get up and have a for example 30-60 sec debuff and if you get downed again while debuff is active next revive will be available in 1 or 2 min.
This wouldn't nerv necro for solos in to the ground, while giving others a window to play around it. If you knew you had two mins until someone could come back, you could even leave them there.

[–]AlternativeZucc 1 point2 points3 points 24 days ago (1 child)
The issue here is that some of these guys have enough patience to wait 30-60 seconds on their own.
I had one match, where I trapped a guy's body for what must have been half a minute. I hear the beartrap go off and then running.
Ok, whatever, I go kill him, firebomb.
I hear running soon after. Kill him while he's putting out the fire, look for a lantern and burn him. He gets up while I'm throwing the object. Equips his bomb lance and runs me through. Since I hadn't had time to reload my Romero or Nagant.
I had eight kills that match. Half of them were on him alone.  
Another match, I'd killed a sniper before running into a compound. Got a pick on one solo on the ramparts, then snapped another one on a stairwell. So, what am I supposed to do now? I've got three solos, all miles apart from each-other with no way to confirm who is really dead or who is just waiting.  
I watched all three of these guys for roughly twenty minutes. I had, had, a string of games ruined by self-revives that night and really did not feel like losing to one again. Even if it meant I'd extract without a bounty. Lo and behold, stair-man gets up while I'm grabbing a lantern, I watch this happen and put him down. Ignite and fully burn out (at about fifteen minutes, mind you.) Rampart man. Just in time for stair-man to resurrect again and, since he's had three chances now for me to make a mistake. Win the last engagement against me.  
Simply waiting another 30-60 seconds is a band-aid issue (or, in my opinion, not even a fix at all.) for a perk that is a required pick. If you do not take it as a solo, you are at an express disadvantage in any fight you will take against another solo. To the point that your chances of winning without it are near-zero.  You have to sit there and watch anybody you kill for so long, that you can forget about extracting or even finding the bounty. Or you run the risk of getting put into a fight against a full health (- missing chunks.) competent player in a one-on-one engagement.



[–]pillbinge Bloodless  1 point2 points3 points 14 days ago (0 children)
I would rather know that someone is being revived, by themselves or someone else, sooner rather than later. Let me confirm what I'm seeing. If there were a timer, I'd have to wait even longer. While one doesn't have to wait, it just means you're going to go through the same motions of burning someone out or not, and the community would figure out when it's worth it to stop self-resurrecting in fire since you won't make it. But if someone's being revived by someone else, they could still get up. We don't want to make things murkier. Let us know what's going on and be done with it.
Fire exists mainly to burn someone out and draw their partners out of cover. Before the game had Necro, you knew what you were doing. Slowly, we did away with this. We have red skull revives. We have Necro, and Necro for one. All that does is make the game blander and ensure that the only way to know something is to burn someone out.

[–]Ororon_unknown 6 points7 points8 points 27 days ago (1 child)
Not sure if it's been mentioned yet, but maybe make necro a stackable burn trait? Teams lose it if they rez a teammate, solos lose it if they have to rez, but you can stack it up to 3 times and it takes up trait slots.



[–]DreadPirateTuco 50 points51 points52 points 1 month ago* (7 children)
The only issue is blazeborn. Necro is fine but not being able to burn is annoying.
Also, not being able to make infernals bleed is annoying since it weakens traps, which are the other counter to self-rez alongside burning.
So it just becomes a perfect storm where all the usual counters so self-rez are gone. I hope we can push them to adjust the infernal pact instead of necro itself.

[–]Azmodae 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Infernal not being able to bleed is the biggest problem. It's insanely OP for things like concertina

[–]-eccentric- 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
These events always drastically change how the game plays out, and not for the good. I know they're using them to experiment things but man, last one sucked, and this one sucks too.
Great event but those special perks are awful for the game health.

[–]Azmodae 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
They legitimately make me not want to play the game. I also hate how unbalanced the perks are for months at a time. They should balance them as the event goes on.

[–]sn1pejkeee 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Doesn't it take a second to auto stop bleeding and then it is reapplied again? Also I dont think that bleeding does a lot of damage, concertina breaking is the biggest source.





[–]temest4 Magna Veritas 40 points41 points42 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Thank you. It was getting really tiresome.

[–]namewithoutnumbers 45 points46 points47 points 1 month ago (41 children)
Good move IMO, thanks mods.
Obligatory opinion to dump onto the pile: I think allowing solos to rez is fine, and its balanced, but the current implementation is not ideal. I think it all stems from allowing downed solos to wait however long they want before standing up. It makes it so that the optimal move for the solo is to alt tab for 10 mins while the killer leaves, and the optimal move for the killer to burn and babysit their body for ~2 min. Neither are fun, so I stopped doing them, but it does feel bad to choose between reckless and being bored.

[–]PenitusVox  22 points23 points24 points 1 month ago (0 children)
The other side of this that's annoying is that you have no idea if the solo is even still in the lobby or not. When this was first introduced, everyone had Death Cheat which created a sound and visual effect when you left the match. Now, I certainly don't want Death Cheat to return, but that effect of knowing when a solo has peaced out made self rez way more livable. 
It's pretty ridiculous that we have to stare at a body when the guy could be in the next match, just tell us when they left.

[–]victoraug19 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago (37 children)
Just yesterday me and my duo got 3rd partied and he died, I tried to fight but was with only 100 HP so I ran hid and picked him up after the fight moved, (6 minutes).
What's the difference?

[–]dpulverizer556 24 points25 points26 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Difference is that other team can chase you down and still be involved in engaging gameplay

[–]IndoZoro 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Difference is theoretically they can hunt you down/you had to get away. 
The solo only had to leave to make some tea. 
I say this as a solo player, but there should be a limit to how long a solo can wait to revive. And the revive itself should make some more noise than just getting up.

[–]Pakkazull 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
At least you had to run away and hide, lol. A solo has to press a single button.

[–]Genin85 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (23 children)
That's the point. There is absolutely no difference. It happens all the times between teams. But if a single, injured solo could do that.... People loose their mind.
Solos are a team themselves, no reason for ask to remove their advantages since the disadvantages are way more severe already.

[–]Twoixm Crow 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (2 children)
There’s a pretty big difference in watching a burning body for 2 minutes, and burning a body while I search for his teammate. As long as there’s an enemy nearby there’s tension. Watching a downed body who might have already left is boring. I’d have no problem with self ress if it wasn’t so tedius to counter.

[–]Genin85 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Ok, but you don't need to stay there watching the solo burning till he stop. It's your decision.
If we start counting the many ways people can make the game boring, we could write a long list (just a example: the good old "bush sniper vs shotgun campers"). It's an annoying stale but it can't be solved just with a complete nerf on one side.
Let's be honest... I mean, completely honest. The only strength of self revive is the chance to choose WHEN you can do it. And still you kinda have to  guess "when", since you can't see, just hear what's around you. And even like this, it may, works maybe one or two times out of ten.
Decent players (decent, not necessarily "good) have plenty of ways to counter it, how don't really know how it could be changed without making it totally unusefull.

[–]Twoixm Crow 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Ok, but you don't need to stay there watching the solo burning till he stop. It's your decision.
This is honestly not a good counter argument. I know I don’t have to do anything, but if I want to increase my chances at winning then it’s pretty important that I make sure that players I down don’t get up as soon as I turn my back. A downed solo can still one tap me even tho they’re missing health. They might be at a bigger disadvantage than before, they might have a much smaller chance of wiping my team, but they can still make it so that our chances of winning the next team fight is reduced. I’ve had compound fights with multiple teams where a single self ressing solo was able to continually stand up and continue fighting. No other player could do such a thing because it was simply not possible to sit and perform a 5 second ress. Self ressing solos are simply put enough of a danger that it’s strategically wise to make sure that they don’t stand up again. 
I’m not saying that self ress should be completely removed, I’m saying that there needs to be a reliable counter that is more efficient than 2 minutes of watching a corpse burn.

[–]LogicalLetterhead272 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (4 children)
There is a huge difference. With teams I can hunt the remaining team members down (ie actually play the game). With solos you just have to sit there and burn it.

[+]Genin85 comment score below threshold-6 points-5 points-4 points 1 month ago (3 children)
You see? You proved my point.
With solos, you are not forced to stay on his rotten body. That's YOUR decision. You can trap, burn and leave... Or just leave without doing anything. 
The same as you killed a member of a team and the others disappear. It's your choice to chase them or not. 
If course they will probably comeback (both the solo and the remaining team) or just extract. 
But basically you want to remove this chance just for the solo. While the porpose of self necro is exactly that, give a solo another chance (or more) like the other teams. Becose the solo IS a team, a team of himself.

[–]Minitheif -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
The big issue is there are more options with a team. You can zone them away from the body, you can hunt them down to stop them from reviving, and, critically, when you wipe the team you know that they're gone. With a solo the options are leave them alone or camp the body, because you never know whether or not the solo is still a threat, and neither of those is an appealing choice. The point of changing things isn't to "remove the chance for the solo," no one is asking for it to be removed, it's to change the play patterns to be more healthy. That's why there's so many different suggestions on how to change it. Longer timer before revive, maximum time before revive, Blazeborn changes, returning the sound for the solo leaving the game, maximum revive count, outright remove Necro for teams and solos. I don't know what the best option is, but I do think there's something better that can be done.

[–]LogicalLetterhead272 -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
A solo is much more dangerous than a duo/trio missing a team member because of the MMR difference and perk advantage, so it's not really the same thing.
Besides, the duo/trio teammate has another person relying on them to revive them, 19 times out of 20 they will try to save their burning teammate.

[–]Genin85 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Fighting, 2/3 people instead of one in not the same thing either in the first place. Then the solo who come back will have at least one bar less.
I'm not sayn they are "equal", but they are pretty much  "balanced.
I agree that 1 one 1 (if you loose your teammates for some reason, maybe another team) the solo is supposed to be advantaged, but most of the times he's not.

[+]Pakkazull comment score below threshold-12 points-11 points-10 points 1 month ago* (14 children)
What disadvantage? Getting to fight people with lower MMR than you?
Edit to pre-empt further comments: this was supposed to be a quip, not a real question. I'm not a fucking idiot, I understand the disadvantages of being outnumbered, I just think they're more than offset by effectively having free smurfing and self-res.

[–]Ok-Music788 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I mean, throwing a quip in balancing discussions online seldom goes well.

[–]Pakkazull 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Fair.

[–]Genin85 6 points7 points8 points 1 month ago (5 children)
Ti make such a statement, you clearly never played solo.
Playn solo is like to be in constant clutch, maybe you experienced that.
And the "lower mmr thing" is not always the case. Often it happens that a single member of the other teams has an equal or even highter mmr than yours, if the others are way lower. Plus he's still in a team.
I'm a 5 stars and tipically the lobby is composed by 5 and 4 stars. In some cases I even had some 6 stars (in a team composed for example by 6-4-3).
And even mediocre players could easily win against a solo if they have a minimum game sense. At the same time solos should have a chance to win against a team as much another team.
I

[–]Pakkazull -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (4 children)
I play about 40% solo. Yeah it's not always the case, but in the vast majority of games I fight 3 and 4 stars instead of 5 and 6 stars, and it is a significant difference.

[–]Genin85 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (3 children)
The only time I find a few 3 stars as a solo, is when I dropped a lot after having several bad matches with my team. I think I dropped on the hight 4 stars range.
But normally I never find people below 4 stars (in solo vs trios). 4 stars may not be the best players around, but some of them have hundreds or thousands of hours in the game and counter necro basically take no skill, just a little basic knowledge.
Most of the time necro is unusefull, you manage to kill the team, or you die and they watch/trap/burn your body. But a nerf to it would means remove even the lucky scenario for a comeback.



[–]lifeisgood789 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Uhm… they are a trio/duo and you are on your own?



[–]No_one- 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (3 children)
Number of sight lines, total ammo, number of targets for the enemy team to focus on, number of tools, number of heals available as teammates can heal one another, number of consumables, redskull revive ability.
To start

[–]Pakkazull 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Obviously. My point was that all of these are easily offset by having necro and fighting people significantly worse than yourself.



[–]ethanAllthecoffee Sound Cues 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (2 children)
They can burn your partner and he can’t stop the fire himself and they can listen for you coming back, or they could have killed you faster or chased you down

[–]victoraug19 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Guess what, they could also burn a solo with the same efficiency

[–]ethanAllthecoffee Sound Cues 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Indeed, but the solo can stand up and extinguish the fire himself

[–]namewithoutnumbers -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (5 children)
Nothing, thats also boring.

[–]victoraug19 -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (4 children)
But it is part of the game, the only thing solo Necro does is balance solos with teams, there's no advantage. Unless the solo is of higher MMR which is almost never the case in my experience.

[–]El_Cactus_Fantastico 13 points14 points15 points 1 month ago (3 children)
It’s actually always the case. Solos get placed in matches against lower mmrs

[+]victoraug19 comment score below threshold-7 points-6 points-5 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Demonstrably untrue.

[–]phaedrus910 8 points9 points10 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I mean, you're right, but only because mmr right now is out of wack. In theory the solo is the highest mmr of the lobby, but I was a 3star yesterday running solo and fought a 2 stack 5 star and 2 star. The 5 star was above and beyond anyone else in that lobby

[–]flamingdonkey 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Yeah, if you're soloing as a 3* there aren't a ton of active players at a lower rating, so the matchmaking will just prioritize finding a match.



[+]removekarling comment score below threshold-9 points-8 points-7 points 1 month ago (1 child)
If the solo waits 10 minutes then why care if they get back up? You're likely long gone by that point

[–]namewithoutnumbers 12 points13 points14 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Because im probably fighting over the boss two compounds away. If that solo can land headshots, hes just as much of a threat to me as a healthy player.

[–]SSPornoAccount 8 points9 points10 points 24 days ago* (0 children)
900 hours and ~$265 into this game. I'm not playing it anymore (and certainly not buying any more DLC) until the solo necro gets nerfed. It annoying enough that none of the people who I used to play this game with have been willing to join me for a while now. So now I'm mostly running solo myself. The other day I managed to swoop in and steal a bounty token and run. The solo who killed the boss and had the other token decided I had to die. I outplayed and killed them FOUR TIMES while trying to run for extract with another team taking shots at me from distance. I need to heal and reload but they get to just stand up yet again and get a lucky shot on me through some bushes. And since I was running a free hunter, I didn't have necro so I just lose. I alt-f4'd right there and was tempted to just hit uninstall.
I can understand not wanting to have a trait that is completely useless for solos, but make it a burn trait if you use it in solo. Or just make it only work once per round. Or, since its easy to sell traits now, just don't have the solo buff. Solos can sell the useless trait and buy a useful one. I don't care how, but there needs to be a major nerf of this mechanic before I can come back to this game.

[–]KiloWyatt110 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Solo necro it self is fine I think it's a good addition to the game, what's not fine and needs tweaking is
>MMR reduction for solos, make it smaller or remove it entirely
>Some way to prevent rapid deaths from sinking MMR (I know that redskull kills don't count for KDA? so something like that would fix it)
>Infernal pact makes it busted, an antidote show and pact bloodless makes them immune to any way to keep them down outside of sitting ontop of them
>Rampage is the best healing trait out of the three pacts, Death have to sit ontop of bodies and loot ether after the fight or hope there not rushed while spending a pledge mark and demented have to do an even lengthier action at a trait skulls which is even more situational,  meanwhile if you killed a solo three times  and leave him, if he nets any kill he gets all his pips back instantly

[–]NekiCoule 4 points5 points6 points 15 days ago (0 children)
I'm a fairly new player and play with a friend who started basically at the same time. While I don't find solo necro to be completely OP since the person loses a health bar, I do find it breaks the flow of the game. Let me explain:  
You are in a rather big fight and you down a player. With the chaos, it's hard to tell if it's a solo or not, so even dead, this person you downed is a threat. You can kill a second guy nearby, it doesn't mean this was their duo and perhaps both corpses are now a threat to you.  
Not knowing if a solo player has necro can be very bothersome because if you don't have tools or already ran out of them, you end up camping corpses just in case they come back up, which in a big fight with many players around, is a pretty big issue. Downed players shouldn't be such a threat I think.  
If the devs don't rework the talent completely, at least adding a breathing sound like when you are dead with the trait could be a good thing, and it goes away if the person disconnects. It keeps Necro mostly like it already is, but it helps preserving some of the game's flow.

[–]pillbinge Bloodless  4 points5 points6 points 14 days ago (2 children)
I have never had a problem with solo Necro. I think my team has died to a solo twice, and that was early on when it was introduced, and we forgot about it. After that, we learned out lesson: you have to utterly desecrate a body and play like a weenie in order to play like you used to. Short of that, you're setting yourself up for problems later, or nothing, and that's an unfair drain on players who won an engagement.
The issue I have is that when someone's lying dead on the ground and someone else isn't, it's clear where skill and luck came into play. It's done. We have a winner and a loser. Skill check over.
After that, it's a matter of resources and planning, but to require us to plan for a solo by having us use a consumable and/or tool is taxing on the wrong party. What happens if you kill someone but don't have fire near you? Lots of possibilities, like having to watch the body while someone finds fire, or leaving the body knowing they're listening (because you can hear things at the screen of death, for some reason).
All of this is a disruption to the game wherein, again, someone already died by being shot.
So it's not a skill issue. It's a resource issue, and that issue is put on the party that already won. That's bad design.
These days, my partners and I always burn someone if we don't see their partner (e.g. a duo in trios, a solo in duos). We do it because it'll likely draw out their partner, though lately, we've straight up seen people abandon their partner, which is lame. We don't necessarily know if we're killing a solo because it could also be that their partner is nearby casting it.



[–]Hairy-Potter89 23 points24 points25 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I just want tomsay I love the buffs they made for solos. Since I have only one friend who ocasionally joins me I mostly play solo and since the buffs I play way more hunt than before.
I see why the not being able to burn downed hunters is problematic and I think it would be an easy fix to apply the effect only for living Hunters.
The mmr discussion I can understand as well, maybe a fix were getting downed multiple times as a solo wasnt affecting your mmr would be enough... but maybe a rework of the whole system is needed. 
I rarely meet people that have a way lower kd than me, but I am usually the player with the highest kd on the map when I play solo. Is that a bad thing when it is a 1v3 everytime? I dont know.
I really hope they dont revert the buffs for the solo traits but instead find other solutions to make both sides happy since there seem to be a lot of people who are unhappy atm and I trust crytek to do the right thing.

[–]Cheeky_DotCooking Simulator Enjoyer 3 points4 points5 points 28 days ago (0 children)
In this game your playing in servers of 12 people. In a perfect world this would mean that a trio would win 1/4 games, a duo 1/6 games and the solo 1/12 games. But with all the buffs to solos the 1 solo will be so much better than the players they're playing against that they're probably close to winning 50% of games. And even "losing" is a win because once your downed, just rez up all your bars and either escape or get your MMR lowered even more... Congrats, your now in an even lower bracket!
Personally i would like to be able to opt out of playing against solos as a team, because even before all the MMR, necro and event shenanigans playing against solos felt bad. Most solos would play snippers and completely ignoring the objective. And whilst it is smart, it is also very unfun to play against. 
All i want to do is just have a nice shoot out with another team, that plays around the objective.

[–]R4b 3 points4 points5 points 27 days ago (0 children)
I'm not super opposed to it for solo play (not that I do it often) but I watch many streamers pull off plays that just feel a bit cheap because of it. Doesn't fit somehow. 
I think if it's not going to go it could be balanced by either upping the cost for the trait for solos or give other players an opportunity to hear or see whether or not the solo is about to or has the option necro themselves, similar to how in team play you may have similar clues as to when a team mate is about to res a downed player.

[–]colonshiftsixparenth 3 points4 points5 points 24 days ago (0 children)
I just started really playing the game about a week or two ago. So here's a new guy perspective on it.
My buddy gifted me the game in the Tide of Shadows season, and it was pretty cool but a lot to get used to. I got back into it and started just playing solos so I could dick around and have fun. Then I discover Necromancer. That's freaking sweet! I've been shot from god knows where so many times, having a second chance is awesome. I really enjoy the game with Necromancer since I can play much looser.
Now the biggest problems I'm noticing:
1) I bought a legendary hunter skin. Using this I can get a hunter with 3 perks, then refund the perks and get necromancer. I think being able to get it on a fresh character is ridiculous. 
2) There's no way to know if someone has necromancer or not. I feel like the spirit of this perk is for when you get shot far away or in a large battle with several teams, you can evacuate. It stops solos from being afraid to engage large fights. The fact someone can blow me away close up with a shotgun and I can just keep standing up is goofy.
3) It's too persistent. One revive would be plenty. Anything after is excessive and I feel like actively slows an already quite slow game down. 
I feel like if I were to re-tune the perk I would go one of two ways: 
1) Self-revive is it's own perk in the Death Pact. This would force players to actively participate without it to earn the tokens and get the pact. It would also get rid of having a self revive right off the rip. Along with this, having a way to double-tap them to prevent getting up would be great. Just a melee attack or something to stop them from reviving.
2) Solo players innately have a self-revive perk, but it's extremely obvious they have a revive available, and give it one charge that can maybe be earned back on a bounty pick up. Along with this, do the same thing as above that you just have to give them a whack and they can't revive.

[–]Disastrous-Bill1036 Crow 3 points4 points5 points 18 days ago (2 children)
Solo Necro Bad



[–]Metalped 2 points3 points4 points 11 days ago (1 child)
Playing with a teammate who disconnected from the game. Waiting for his body for a solo to appear. I down him run to his body to make sure he doesn't get up. He gets up I stab him with a knife, he doesn't die and kills me. Necro is the dumbest mechanic. The revive is way too quick.



[–]theomegawalrus 36 points37 points38 points 1 month ago (8 children)
I offer no solution, I only wish to express a longing for the sort of gameplay that existed before solo-self revive.

[–]Northern_June 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago (5 children)
Could you please elaborate, what sort of gameplay existed before solo necro that isn’t present now?

[–]theomegawalrus 27 points28 points29 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Kills were decisive and satisfying. Killing a solo as it stands today is a tedious exercise of whack-a-mole that skews the MMR of all parties.

[–]No_one- 8 points9 points10 points 1 month ago (1 child)
For solos it's basically limiting them to zero risk options. Being way more discerning about engaging, usually this means running in with a scope and avoiding any team within ironsight range/darksight range, because one headshot means it's over. Never getting within 20-30m because the risk of trading is way too high. Taking one shot and leaving if the ambush isn't successful. Frequently trapping extraction and waiting outside of darksight range for them to get tripped for an easy kill. Just really boring, sweaty shit.

[–]Northern_June 10 points11 points12 points 1 month ago (0 children)
So you say that solo necro allows solos to play in a more interactive way?  Interesting

[+][deleted] 1 month ago (1 child)
[removed]

[–]lifeisgood789 8 points9 points10 points 1 month ago (0 children)
That was also part before solo revive: When you couldn‘t find the third guy from a team, so you had to wait until both of his teammates burnt out. There was even a big difference in comparison to the solo rez: you could get shot by the third guy while camping the two burning bodies. This can‘t happen if you only have to watch the solos body.

[–]oldmanjenkins51 Bloodless  2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (1 child)
It’s still there

[–]error3000 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (0 children)
not really? if you kill a solo and you want him actually dead and not shooting you in the back you have to babysit his corpse until it burns down completely, which in this event will take a lot of time, before solo necro you would just kill a solo and thats it, exactly how it works and worked with teams, if everyone in the team is dead they wont rise from the dead unlike solo's

[–]destroy_then_search Duck 11 points12 points13 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Since moderators are taking things in their own hands, it would be nice if they cleaned up this thread from posts that have nothing to do with the discussed topic. It's cluttering the only place left for it.  
Let me at least link previous discussion, so we have something relevant in here.

[+][deleted] 1 month ago (1 child)
[removed]



[–]roden36 26 points27 points28 points 1 month ago (22 children)
I feel like the easiest solution at this point is to just make necromancer a burn trait, for both solo and teams. That way for a solo they need to decide if they want to pop back up and try to win the fight they just lost, or wait a few minutes, get up and lick their wounds without necessarily trying to get revenge.
I think it’s a given at this point that the anti-burn mechanic is bad given the current implementation of solo necro. I say this as a 75 percent solo player.

[–]Teerlys 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (19 children)
I feel like the easiest solution at this point is to just make necromancer a burn trait, for both solo and teams.
The teams would still be able to revive each other without necro. The Solo already has to buy a trait that the duo/trio doesn't to get a rez off.

[–]hawkxu 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (16 children)
easy, just give us an option to get a non-solo queue. I would rather fight another team instead of solo in duo match. Anyone don’t minds go to the solo enabled queue.

[–]Teerlys 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (15 children)
I would rather fight another team instead of solo in duo match.
Why though? The times a solo just wrecks my team's face are only notable because it almost never happens, and even then it's frequently because I had a brain slip and forgot to take care of the body before rezzing my buddy.

[–]hawkxu 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (14 children)
Because taking care of solo’s body is unbearable boring.

[–]_moosleech -3 points-2 points-1 points 1 month ago (13 children)
So then don’t? You can trap and leave. 
Every single complaint about waiting at the body is because you chose the most dumbass strategy and then got mad it wasn’t fun.

[–]hawkxu 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (9 children)
If you just trap and leave then you will be fked up

[–]_moosleech -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (8 children)
Only if you’re bad at the game.

[–]A_Huggable_Pirate 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (1 child)
If you only lose because you are bad, then why do you need necro?

[–]_moosleech -3 points-2 points-1 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I don't play solo, but go off.
"If you only lose because you're bad why do you need Mosins/Spitzer/shotguns/bees/frag bombs/teammates/cover/headshots"

[–]hawkxu 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (5 children)
You are good so you never lose to revived solo? What a typical “skill issue” guy

[–]_moosleech 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (4 children)
Correct. In a thousand hours (most of which was pre-necro), my team has been attacked by a downed solo a handful of times, and maybe once (or twice) been wiped.
We usually get a second kill while healing/looting and the solo tries to get the jump... and then we lamp/concertina them and leave.



[–]error3000 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (2 children)
surprisingly enough some people dont like being shot in the back of the head by a sniper they killed 20 minutes ago

[–]_moosleech 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
… and that’s the skill issue. Like, your argument is “I can’t be aware enough to stop a single guy who I already killed and is down Health and I know where he’s be coming from.”
If that’s the case, maybe Hunt isn’t for you. Sorry, but when you’re saying a mechanic should be merged or removed because the alternative is that you might need to have some awareness or God forbid, PvP someone… you’re looking for ways not to play Hunt.

[–]error3000 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
when you’re saying a mechanic should be merged or removed 
and where did I say that? come on point to the part, even copied it for your convenience
surprisingly enough some people dont like being shot in the back of the head by a sniper they killed 20 minutes ago
​
oh right I didnt, honestly tho I appreciate you being a walking stereotype with the classic "skill issue" response having nothing to do with the argument
my argument is "I can't engage other teams AND constantly observe bushes 200m behind me looking out for a hypothetical solo that might come from behind me or might (if he has a functional brain) come from somewhere else in order to flank me"

[–]roden36 -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Mainly suggested making it a burn trait across the board for ease of implementation/understanding.



[–]Dogeatswaffles -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I like that a lot. Kind of a bummer for teams because I only run necro while on a team and use it a lot, but I wouldn't quit over it or anything. Stacking it would be kind of annoying and I don't know if I'd like it, but 3 charges of solo necro is much better than potentially infinite charges currently. You can't just keep reviving on the last bar until your opponent runs out of patience and/or ammo if you only get 4 lives. But a single-user burn trait is pretty good as it stands. Maybe they can split them, making necro just the team focused trait and make a new burn trait called "I'm back bitch" or something more thematic that allows for self-revive.

[–]No-Sherbet8709 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
You already can't keep reviving on your last bar though, that's never been a thing for solos, it is a thing for teams with a token though, and doesn't even require a trait to do it. If you want to limit solo revives further than health bars already do, then the same needs to apply to team revives, else you're basically just asking for an easy mode to stomp solos.

[–]Killerkekz1994 Duck 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Removing necromancer all together would be the best for the game imo 
Would make games way more interesting and challenging

[–]Pensive_Psycho 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Completely agree. It's always been a shitty trait.

[–]Atreides_Fighter Innercircle 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Free 3 Wooden STAKES for every Hunter in pocket and not using inventory Slot. Problem Solved. 4 seconds use to Nail them into Heart.
Necro+Resilience Full HP, this is too much bs. You have to wait and watch every damn corpse so they don't get up and shoot your back.



[–]crippleswagx 4 points5 points6 points 28 days ago (0 children)
Remove necro as a trait altogether.

[–]Athryil 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
My idea for reworking necro would be into something that is meaningful for solo and teams. Something like you get a one time rez with no bars lost for solos and for teams, you can rez a teammate one time with full life and bars. I don't mind solos getting a second chance so to speak but over and over and over again is pretty silly.

[–]ConfidentPressure657 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Imo self ress should have cooldown of at least 5 minutes

[–]Main-Huckleberry7828 2 points3 points4 points 28 days ago* (0 children)
what if its like after each death the timer increases by 5s-10s to self res? Or just remove the perk, it was fun at first since it was only during the event but its fucking annoying now having to watch over a body for so long especially now where hunters cant burn, bleed, or be poisoned. Its also unfair during trades, or worse when you kill a guy 4 times  and they come back and kill you, thats not fair at all.

[+]BrightLingonberry937 2 points3 points4 points 27 days ago* (0 children)
The event fixed solo necro!
Now it's so damn tedious to try to kill anyone that people just alarm trap and move on. Meanwhile solo is so strong that my last 10 lobbies had barely 2 duos in them, some were solo exclusive.
Well done!

[–]Spolsky_ 2 points3 points4 points 25 days ago (0 children)
blazeborn, bloodless, necro is even more stupid than death cheat. I cant belive they even achived that.
They should make two separate queues for test - with necro trait available and second without it. I guarantee you, one of them would be empty day 1. Even as solo I don't want to play against another solos.

[–]TimeGlitches 2 points3 points4 points 12 days ago (1 child)
I just think Necro itself is a bad idea. 
The only way you should be able to revive someone is by doing it the old fashioned way. Just remove Necro, problem solved.



[–]NotARealDeveloper 2 points3 points4 points 11 days ago (1 child)
It's a team based game and necro incentivizes solo play currently. I think it should only ease solo play, not making it that good. The MMR which puts solo 4-5 stars into 3star lobbies doesn't help either.



[–]LunaticKid889 2 points3 points4 points 4 days ago* (0 children)
The only reason I'm considering buying this game is the Necro Trait. The game looks interesting but the fact that there's a permadeath mechanic where you lose your character and progress/gear isn't appealing. This Necro Trait thing means I can at least run away to that extraction with what I got and I don't have to worry about losing my character.  
Edit:  
And yeah, I'm a solo player. I don't like being forced to play in team if it can be helped.

[–]alorty 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago (2 children)
My own offer for a solution is to have Necro be usable for self revive once, but be refreshed whenever looting a hunter. This would make the highly frustrating strategy of reviving as quickly as possible, aiming to kill one hunter before going down again in a wicked game of attrition, way riskier/impossible as anything but a last ditch strategy

[–]PipTheOwlBarbarian 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Honestly love the idea



[–]Daedelus74 Spider 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I'll give once again my solution :
It solves :
- the solo sniper problem,
- the MMR problem. 
Most of the time, people agree that you have one chance to use necro in a fight, then the enemy will check your corpse and it's over. So my solution has a low impact for solos ; as if you win the fight after your first revive, you'll have plenty of corpses to loot to get back your revive charge. 
I have no opinion for the event no-burn problem. I haven't played enough since it's here.

[–]decyphier_ 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago (3 children)
I have played since 2019 and am a super-average player, but self-revive has really taken almost all of the fun out of this game for me. It makes the game feel like much less of a high-stakes horror PvP/E FPS which is why I started playing in the first place. I usually come back every few updates to check out the game but it doesn't last long.

[–]_moosleech -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Which is wild, because I’ve got 1500 hours or so, entirely duo/trio, and can count on one hand the solos who have come back to fight us after dying. And on one finger the times they’ve come back and wiped us. 
How is it that common of an occurrence for you?

[–]REEL-MULLINS Magna Veritas -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (1 child)
who have come back to fight us 
I have 5k hours in the game. We rarely encounter a solo that tries to come back and kill us.
Down, burn, trap, move on. Works every time. We do this for EVERYONE we kill, not just solos.

[–]SexPanther_Bot 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (0 children)
60% of the time, it works every time

[–]Renagox Duck 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I think its not broken unless intentionally used to derank, but its moreso  incredibly annoying to deal with since you have to sacrifice a portion of your loadout that you might not even have unlocket or just  sit there watching if the undead rise up again.

[–]SwatHound 3 points4 points5 points 28 days ago (0 children)
Blazeborne is causing a lot of issues.
and that whatever perk that makes it so you dont even lose a bar going down.

[–]long-shot-695 11 points12 points13 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Maybe Solo Revive was a bad idea

[–]EgdyBettleShell 15 points16 points17 points 1 month ago (14 children)
I feel like a lot of people who are saying that solo necro is fine or are defending it don't get what the actual problem is. I hear a lot of arguments like "solo necro isn't that strong" or "it's easily counterable", but honestly no one cares how effective it is, only that it's annoying and toxic for the flow of the game.
I feel that generally a lot of gamers don't realise that the core principle of designing a game is to make it enjoyable to the player. They think that if someone complains about a mechanic in such game it's because it doesn't fit some criteria of fairness or something, and they try to argue that "no it's fair" while completely missing the point, and necro in hunt is an example of that. It's extremely situational and rarely works, but at the same time:
it forces you to wait, disturbing the flow of your gameplay. From 2 mins with fire to an eternity because there is no upper limit to when they have to revive
it forces you to build loadout around it, because the only fully effective counters to it are traps or consumables that you bring with yourself. Fire only gives that solo a timer so you can't throw it and leave him especially that a solo to the back is just as deadly and annoying with 1hp as with full hp, unloading his weapons is dumb because you are alerting the entire map to where you are to counter one person, and he can easily get around that by going to a resupply point, and you can't do that in a middle of large scale fight where solo players are the most annoying anyway
it changes the baseline approach to gameplay overall because now you have to assume that everyone is solo because you have no indication of that in a multi team fights, which often breaks flow of combat engagement and forces normally aggressive players to be passive and camp the body
it also frustrates the solo himself by giving him a false hope of still being able to do something, while being completely countered
it messes up with the MMR system, it can be abused for deranking intentionally or even on accident
I've seen a lot of potential fixes for the above but here is the kicker, if you need to implement 5 or 6 bandaid fixes to make a certain mechanic somewhat okay, then it's just isn't a good mechanic for the game and even when fixed it's open to ton of possible yet undiscovered abuse cases, and frankly should just be removed

[–]Twoixm Crow 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I think you summed it up perfectly. I don’t think solo ress is op or too hard to counter, the problem is only that it’s boring to counter. I honestly would have no problem with it if they made it so one trap was enough, so that I could move on with my game.

[–]_moosleech 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (6 children)
As soon as you say “it forces you to wait”, it’s hard to take seriously. YOU forced you to wait. 
You can burn, concertina, and/or alert and then leave. There’s absolutely nothing forcing you to choose the least interesting method galls gameplay… and doing so should probably discount your opinion on game mechanics.

[–]Mysterious_Chef_6956 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (3 children)
"You're not FORCED to wait! You're simply placed at a massive disadvantage of having a skulking immortal maniac following behind you at all times unless you do wait!"
Bro.

[–]_moosleech 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (2 children)
massive disadvantage of having a skulking immortal maniac following behind you at all times unless you do wait
Imagine playing Hunt Showdown, and describing a single player, down at least some health, that you've already defeated once, who may or may not even bother to fight you again... as a "massive disadvantage".
And that, my friend, is why this is a skill issue.

[–]Mysterious_Chef_6956 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Well it becomes more of an issue when that player is immortal.
And maybe you should post stars/KD if you're gonna start whinging about "skill issue"? You talk like a 3 star scrub.

[–]Upset_Philosopher_16 1 point2 points3 points 29 days ago (0 children)
a solo is as much immortal as a team getting necroed repeatedly, you talk like a 3 star scrub too bro, post kda ?

[–]EgdyBettleShell 6 points7 points8 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Okay, you killed a person in a team fight at the boss lair, you know that they weren't a part of the bounty team, what do you do now? The proper thing to do would be relocating yourself so that your position is no longer compromised - you just killed someone and everyone heard that, if they were a solo though luck for them, if they had a team then you would relocate to another angle where it would be easier to combat their engage, at best you would fire them to lure that same team out - expectantly about 5-7s per killed target - kill, heal/reload, fire, relocate.
Now add solo necro to the equation, where you have to assume that every potential kill can wake up on their own. Putting fire on someone with solo necro in a team fight does nothing because they can wake up before even losing a chunk, and by doing so they can surprise you(because most people don't expect everyone to be a solo player in a team game) sometimes killing you or more often at least chunking your healing/damaging you after you already pushed forward towards the bounty team. To prevent that you have to either wait them out or complete the second point of why it's annoying to deal with so build your entire loadout around countering a solo player, not only limiting the game's diversity and freedom, but also going against the core concept of what a team game is where teams should pose a bigger threats than lone individuals. And even approaching with right equipment prolongs that time window anyway, from potential 5-7s it goes up to 17-20s - kill, trap with concertina and poison cause one is not enough, fire, wait like 10s aiming at his body in case he has resilience and antidote meaning he would survive that trap, heal, reload, relocate. It slows down the engagement and forces you to wait instead of being proactive, making a potentially 30s long fight into 1 - 2 mins long, enough time for the situation in the game to drastically change. On top of that if that person turned out to not be solo(like you are forced to assume due to solo necro being present) then you can't relocate anymore because the added wait time gave his team opportunity to react, likely locking you into camping or defending your location.
Another thing is that "just trap them bro" is an asinine argument to begin with. First of all currently you can easily survive traps with resilience + antidote, and salvskin gives enough fire resistance to not lose a chunk in that 10s time(not even mentioning blazeborne). Secondly you get 2 traps in your loadout while regularly facing 3-4 solo players in 4 - 5 stars lobbies, not even talking about people that look like a solo at first glance but it turns out that they are not. Thirdly, my second point still stands. Right now if you are a solo player you have to take a melee tool, first aid and two traps just so that you can deal with other solo players, and same for teams where at least one person has to do the same. If you introduce a system that allows the player to customise their gameplay, but them a mechanic in the game forces you to proceed with only one specific setup, then this mechanic is clearly not good for the game because it's to overbearing on other systems as just shown.

[–]redubshank -1 points0 points1 point 29 days ago (0 children)
You aren't forced to wait but that solo can come back and bite you in the butt unless you do.  Sure, if it's a straight up 3v1 fight the solo likely isn't going to make it but any solo with half a brain will just wait for the compound fight and pick people off which can often mean the team that killed that solo 5 minutes ago.
You could kill someone in another team and just move on as well but that would be pretty stupid. Same concept.

[–]handsomezacc Saint_Ugfuglio 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (5 children)
it forces you to wait, disturbing the flow of your gameplay. From 2 mins with fire to an eternity because there is no upper limit to when they have to revive
I literally burn everything and win plenty. I always assume a body might get back up, because there are bunches of weak jawed players that will try to run away with the hope of saving their hunter and picking up their teammate when I'm not in a position to stop or kill them. Nothing slows, nothing changes. If anything I would argue that we all could do with cooking a little quicker, maybe buff lanterns or let us throw two back to back for a firebomb quality burn.
it forces you to build loadout around it, because the only fully effective counters to it are traps or consumables that you bring with yourself. Fire only gives that solo a timer so you can't throw it and leave him especially that a solo to the back is just as deadly and annoying with 1hp as with full hp, unloading his weapons is dumb because you are alerting the entire map to where you are to counter one person, and he can easily get around that by going to a resupply point, and you can't do that in a middle of large scale fight where solo players are the most annoying anyway
"Hey player 1 and 2 you're bringing frags and vit shots? Cool. How about each of us lose one of those items for a concertina bomb or fire? No? Okay, I'll bring traps and fire. You see it's important to me that the solo doesn't get up, because I am very sure I won't win a gun fight a second time." Easy. A good practice is to base your tools and consumables to fit multiple scenarios amongst your whole team. Another good practice would be to rotate away from the body in a way that puts another team between you guys. 
it changes the baseline approach to gameplay overall because now you have to assume that everyone is solo because you have no indication of that in a multi team fights, which often breaks flow of combat engagement and forces normally aggressive players to be passive and camp the body
Nope. Some of you all are cowards and deserve to hear your teammates groan as I burn you out. Nothing has changed for me at all. Fire and wire.
it also frustrates the solo himself by giving him a false hope of still being able to do something, while being completely countered
Nope. I find it more frustrating when no action is taken to stop me at all, because I know that there's a chance that to protect their egos from realizing they made mistake they'll just come here and make a post like this.
it messes up with the MMR system, it can be abused for deranking intentionally or even on accident
Redskull revives do that and so does soul survivor.

[–]EgdyBettleShell 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago* (2 children)
"Hey player 1 and 2 you're bringing frags and vit shots? Oh wait who am I talking to, I am a solo player or I am playing with randoms who don't use coms like majority of players"
Ehh, your entire argument sounds like made out of fear of your cruch being taken away, or to bring pure malus/toxicity into discussion instead of being constructive, or as a way of showing that you are tired of the discussion simply because you don't care and you don't care that others care.
Like first of all you make basic mistakes when it comes to the game's rules, and the general rules on how to hold a discussion:
Redskull revives don't affect MMR, only kills that lose you health chunks do. Sole survivor can be abused, but only intentionally and takes much longer
You assume that everyone is always in trio, while the annoyence factor also relates to twos and solos who have to face this mechanic and who can't as comfortably split their strategy amongst one another. Also you assume a solution to a design problem should be fixed by players - adapting to different situations doesn't mean taking X because you can't play the game normally otherwise.
You assume the ideal setting where your previously executed and planned strategies can be utilised, meanwhile game balance and ux design should focus on the a average case. How many times does the body location actually allow you that maneuver? How many times the map is in your favour? Can you even realistically reach the body?  Are your random team mates competent to follow after that? Are you competent enough? Games should be designed for the average player and the average gameplay situation, if that player finds something annoying or it's annoying in that situation then it will be for majority of the playerbase. Even if you are one of the top players and you can play around it, others aren't and they more than likely are the major part of the playerbase, and a game that alienates the majority of it's playerbase is a dead game
You assume that one concertina bomb is enough when most games have 4 to 5 solo players in them, my team had to run 3x concertina traps +4 poison bombs since the begining of the event, and a lot of people will likely mirror that sentiment
You frankly assume that wire is enough to stop a solo from rezing. You take necro in the vacuum without taking interaction with other game systems into consideration. Resilience, Salvskin, Antidote Shot, Regen Shot, Blazeborne, Relentless etc., there are so many positive feedback loops in the game right now that act alongside necro that make it so much more annoying and that counter it's supposed counters. I had multiple examples of me just ironmaning through a full trap setup as solo necro without any problem due to all this. Another thing is also that setting it up still reduces flow and isn't always possible: sniper kills at range, kills in open field, or fights against multiple teams etc 
You instantly assume that your point of view is everyone's point of view or the only correct one. You don't get frustrated, majority of players do as the subreddit sentiment shows
Most of your points are also toxic and off the mark. You give no strength to your side of the discussion by insulting the other side, and by calling others "cowards" or "people protecting their egos" you are just showing that you are all bark and no bite - you just present a gigantic argumentum ad hominem without any constructive feedback behind it.
Another thing is that you are the exact example of what I presented in my comment. You argue that there are ways to counter it, that you can burn, or wire, or cover the body as a team and so on, and shit mate we know that. I stated even that we know it, it's not the point we are trying to make - honestly self rez sucks ass and there is so much to do against it, but the point is that for the majority of players it's not fun to deal with, and we frankly don't care whether there are counters or ways of playing around it, but they just aren't fun to do for god sake. We play this game to hunt monsters and have epic showdowns with other paranormal cowboys, not to look at the guy campfire in the corner. Like, what's the point that I can win against a solo player if it still lowers my enjoyment of the game

[–]No-Sherbet8709 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I'm an average player and I have no issues with it. It takes a whole 4 seconds or so to place a couple of traps on a corpse and then carry on with the game, which 90% of the time is all I do and that decision virtually never comes back to bite me on the ass later, as I've posted a million times before on here it's got me killed 3 or 4 times as a solo in the entire time it's been a thing, and has never caused our trio to be wiped, not 1 single time. This is 99% all in 3/4*, precisely the bracket your average players will be in.
Crazy OP event traits aside (which apply to everyone btw, not just solos) it's really not an issue unless you somehow make it into one yourself. The guy is dead already, even if you did absolutely nothing to his corpse and he gets back up and finds you later in the game, he's still a bar down so is likely 1 hit to at least 1 of your 4 to 6 weapons your team is packing, and you only need body tap him once with 1 of those in the time he has to pull off a minimum of between 2 and 6 body taps depending on your team size and hp status to wipe you, which he has to pull off without any of you managing to pull off a heal or revive in between. 
The sheer notion that despite all this somehow the duo/trio is still at a disadvantage is frankly ridiculous.

[–]EgdyBettleShell 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Never said they are at disadvantage, as I said it's not my point. My point is that having to build around dealing with solos, and planing your gameplay basis around dealing with solos, in a team game, is annoying. Like I said in my comment, I think solo revive is weak, but whether something is strong or not doesn't really matter if that mechanic is simply anti-fun for the game. Like same, I don't remember the last time a solo player killed me after revive myself, but I remember every single time I found a solo player in a larger fight because it's so insanely off putting to the game's flow and so anti fun to deal with no matter if I am in a trio or solo myself, and as I said, in my comment, twice, this is what I am arguing: that this mechanic is anti fun at its core, not that it's strong.

[–]unflashystriking 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I was about to make a comment but you basically said everything i wanted to say. I usually play in premade teams but from time to time i enjoy going solo and i always take necro for self res.
I agree with you and i think that everybody in this thread whining about self-revive for solos is just butthurt because they got downed by a solo who outskilled them.
Whenever me and my buddies get whiped by a solo it is simply because we did not pay enough attention or just played poorly.



[–]ChillyAleman Bootcher 6 points7 points8 points 1 month ago* (0 children)
Long time 1v2 player. Occasional 2v2 or 2v3 player. I was able to team-wipe on rare occasions in the past, but Hunt was a much scarier game without Necromancer. It was a thrill to know I was always outmatched and I had to be clever to win. Normally my lobbies would only have 1 other solo player in them. My biggest gripe was close quarter battles, as I'd often take the Winnie 1873. If I got unlucky, we'd trade, which felt like crap. Necro now makes it so I win trades with duos.
I do think I have gotten some very unfair kills with Necro now. It is always someone who does not know how to properly handle a solo. I now have swapped my tools and consumables so that I have no choke grenades, but alert trip mines instead. I now carry a single choke beetle for my teammates should I have them. I trip every body I see as to give myself a warning. I normally don't bother burning and camping unless I'm sure they are solo.
The biggest problem with the solo necro right now is that you can tank your mmr. I can wipe a server one game, get killed 4 times in 1 match, and not experience a shift in mmr. As much as I think Infernal + Blazeborne + Bloodless + Necromancer is unfair, it doesn't affect me much because I use alert trip mines anyway. I always loot down hunters with a full stamina bar and from behind, and I don't wait to kill them again unless they keep getting up at the 10 second mark.  
My solution: You can only Necro if you go down with all HP bars intact. So you can banish a boss or use one of the seasonal recovery methods to get another use of Necro in the same match.

[–]_claymore- 14 points15 points16 points 1 month ago (0 children)
fucking finally. thx.
no matter where you stand on the topic, the endless posts recycling the same talking points got tedious and annoying.

[–]awaniwono 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (1 child)
If solo Necro was truly intended to alleviate the problem of solos trading with the last enemy and dying to a random lucky shot, it needs additional limitations because as of now it's just too convenient to use and too tedious to deal withy, especially other solos, ironically.
Make it a purchaseable burn trait, or add a 60 seconds time limit, or give it one charge that is replenished by looting dead hunters, whatever, but it should help alleviate unfair situations, not help solos shit on players who are 2 whole MRR brackets below.
The ability to self-rez without risks or time limits, plus additional traits making it even more efficent, plus the MMR advantage solos get when matchmaking, PLUS multiple deaths dragging them down the MMR ladder has made playing against solos a very oppressive experience for 3-star players, such as my usual partners, because we're facing (thankfully not often) very good players who have extra lives and can only be eliminated by camping their body until it burns.
I mean, it's the most controverial feature for a reason.
PS: The MMR handicap for solo players made sense when they only had one life, which is no longer the case, so that should probably be looked at, too.
Source: ~400 hours solo play, most of it before solo Necro and before MMR was even a thing, so I know what it feels like.



[–]Remarkable_Winter540 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (3 children)
Surprised this didn't happen with reshade. What's different this time?

[–]Snowymew2[S,M] 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago* (2 children)
New mods were recruited, previously there were only a few active mods who have real lives, so they did what the could. This is an unpaid position, completely unrelated to crytek, although we do collaborate on some occasions. In the end, the mods are human with responsibilities, we do what we can but are working on organizing the sub better.
(I am new to this role as well, so this is mainly speculation from what info I have heard)

[–]Remarkable_Winter540 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Glad to hear! Hope more megathreads will be used in the future for bugs, balance changes, and events



[–]Classic_Art_8992 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Really it’s not that hard IMO. Concertina Bomb and just camp until they give up. I’ve played solo a fair amount and good teams will not let you get up at all

[–]redubshank 2 points3 points4 points 29 days ago (0 children)

[–]Antaiseito 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Concertina Bomb and just camp until they give up. 
Problem is just that it's unfun. I don't even use necro anymore and when i spectate and they trap and burn and sit on my body for 2+ minutes it just feels bad. And felt equally bad lying there waiting and hoping they'd leave and then gambling they did.

[–]qbmax 10 points11 points12 points 1 month ago (1 child)
hated it when it was an event trait, hated it even more when it became permanent, hate it even more now during this event where keeping a solo down is impossible due to infernal pact. it leads to boring snooze-inducing gameplay where you have to sit and watch every potential solo burn out to prevent them from getting up 15 minutes later and shooting you in the back. 
resilience, bloodless and antidote shots make it very difficult to keep a solo down without dedicating 2/3rds of your loadout to countering it. solos already get crytek-endorsed smurfing due to the MMR debuff on top of doubled darksight/serpent range, being able to lose a fight then get up for free with no consequences and no cost (beyond a lost health chunk which applies to everyone) on top of everything else boggles my mind.
i also dont know why people feel entitled to free buffs because they're playing on their own. solo SHOULD be a challenge, like it or not hunt is primarily a team game. just because you dont want to matchmake with randoms and have no friends to play with doesnt mean you deserve massive buffs over everyone else.

[–]PipTheOwlBarbarian -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Or you could just not pay optimally if it's not fun.  So what if he gets up. He'll be weak and the fighting is the most fun part of the game anyways so more fighting =more better. Also i feel having a buff as a solo player is nice because it empowers me personally to play just a little bit more recklessly than a bush sniper without being aggressively disadvantaged. Seems to mainly be an MMR issue

[–]DrManik 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I mainly played solo when I was more active years ago, and there was no Necromancer trait in the game. While I'm sure less players would go solo without a trait that makes the gameplay viable, I don't think it's a necessity for fun solo gameplay at all.
In combination with the burning perk its just busted. If this were a one week event I don't think immediate action would be needed but for 50 days it really is going to be a pain to play against.

[–]Antaiseito 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
While I'm sure less players would go solo without a trait that makes the gameplay viable, I don't think it's a necessity for fun solo gameplay at all.
Also a point: nowadays when playing solos there's often 3-4 other solos on the map. I kinda liked it more when most opponents where duos with the occasional solo mixed in (i don't play trios).

[–]Miltage 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I propose a trait that allows the player, when in Dark Sight, to see an indication of whether a hunter has the possibility of being revived, either solo or by a teammate.
Don't enjoy sitting around watching the body of a player who has probably left the server already.

[+]Angry_Roleplayer 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Solo necro is one thing, but combined with blazeborne and rampage it's beyond ridiculous. A good solo is practically unkillable

[–]kromagnonymous 1 point2 points3 points 28 days ago (0 children)
If you care about my two cents, revival options should be harsh and unforgiving. Now there are a lot of options to keep your hunter safe and sound and this makes the risk/reward mechanism of this game is unsatisfying since the hunt dollars is not worth anyting anymore. Both self revive of solos and revival options of trios are a unjust for duo players. You might say you can't make everyone happy, which is true. So there is no point of ballancing the game for a certain type of players.

[–]Sendo_And_Sier 1 point2 points3 points 26 days ago (0 children)
The main issue I see with necro is how it is abused to quickly lower MMR. I often drop from 5 stars down to 3 within 2-4 games and I never play solo or use necro. This becomes a single game if you have as many small health chucks as possible and getting up over and over. I believe the MMR system should be reviewed and overhauled.
Second, it isn't fun for the necro player or the team of 3 waiting a year for the solo to burn and this was just exacerbated by the fire resistance and resilience buffs. Resilience may not increase time to burn but it did make burning solos more compelling. Solo necro is prolonging some games and adding more 'waiting for fun to happen' to a game that is already notorious for long load times. Even without necro, everyone knows that feel when all you seem to get are games where you are either losing a banger at the first clue or slogging through boring running simulators where you spend 10 minutes trying to get to the other corner of the map for the single bounty. I will say that sometimes having teams stagger to a bounty mixes things up a bit. How often this is attributable to waiting for a solo to burn is questionable and anecdotal but I feel it happens often enough.
Lastly, I believe that whether you are pro-necro or against it, there is likely a better iteration of the mechanic possible. Death cheat comes to mind for solos but this is a quick stab at the problem and perhaps people will just fixate on death cheat but it should only be an example of possible alternatives to solo necro. I understand necros enjoy the ability to get up during a chaotic fight between two teams so this would not address that but you are getting the gist perhaps?

[–]wdlp 1 point2 points3 points 11 days ago (0 children)
they should get 1 revive and nothing else

[–]HammerXXs 1 point2 points3 points 15 hours ago (0 children)
Low skill trio thread)))

[–]redubshank 3 points4 points5 points 29 days ago (3 children)
But people have been complaining about it since it was implemented.  It's easy to see most people don't like the mechanic. At the end of the day Crytek seems to have two real crappy policies.
Nothing will change.  
This morning I quit playing  because of #6.  It's honestly enough to make me want to consider uninstalling.

[–]_soon_to_be_banned_ 3 points4 points5 points 29 days ago (2 children)
Your points are all valid except saying they’re weak on cheaters imo. Maybe Crytek from a few years ago is, but my confidence in David Fifield and the direction he’s taking this game has grown a whole lot with all the changes over the past year or so. They might be locked into a contract with EAC and/or just wanna work with them to try and get a handle on the issue. 
Anyway, that all being said, solos have never been more powerful. Not only are you like 2 or 3x slower to burn out with Infernal Pact, you get up and get a single kill with its burn trait and you’re instantly back to 4 self resses. So, after being wiped by solos in random trios at least a couple times this tide and having a painful time working on challenges I decided to go to the dark side. And holy shit. Playing as a solo for the first time it is soooo fucking broken. Wiped multiple trios and duos because of how broken it is. I genuinely don’t know how people defend it. Extraction/survival rate went up 3x easily. It’s trivial to get a maxed out hunter depending on how you play it. 
So yeah, can’t beat ‘em join em. Surprisingly solos are harder than killing trios because of the bullshit required to actually KILL them

[–]redubshank 2 points3 points4 points 29 days ago (0 children)
Fair enough on the cheaters.  I tend to give people the benefit of the doubt unless it's obvious which has only happened a few times but I remember there being someone named I_am_cheating or something and it took months for him to get banned.
And I am done doing solos and only play when I have some friends on.  I played a bit doing the last event and it was a case of 'oh well, i died.  I'll make some coffee and watch some youtube and revive in a moment.  I screwed over a lot of people doing that.  I think I preferred solo before self-rez because it added A LOT of tension.



[–]Glittering_Usual_162 4 points5 points6 points 14 days ago (0 children)
This is really not cool...
This is not ok Crytek
Sorry but something needs to be done about Necro, this is absolutely idiotic...
Having to kill someone 6 times and having to burn them 3 times.
​
Noone can tell me with a straight face that this is fine. Dude gets killed, gets back up 2 minutes later after i lanterned him, he oneshots me even though i shot first because he had Resillience and he had a Slug shotgun.  
My Mate kills him and cant revive me because he has to check his corpse otherwise he will get oneshot aswell, he burns him again with another lantern.
Dude gets up again, and again and again.
We burn his corpse AGAIN for the 3rd freaking time, dude GETS UP AGAIN shoots me AGAIN oneshot and almost manages to kill my friend. After he got downed 5 times. How is this fair in any way shape or form?
I feel like the problem with Necro is that the guys can decide whenever the fuck they want to get up. Like yeah they have to wait a few seconds, but then they can also just lay down for however long they want.  
There should be some way to disable Necromancer on players. Or that it cant be used if you lay down to long.  
Or that you cant get up if you are burning
Or that resilience doesnt work with Necromancer so you can easily trap bodies without them having the chance to oneshot you with a slug shotgun
Or how about an item to disable Necro.
What about an execution animation that takes long but you decapacitate the other player and he cant self revive.
Anything really....

[–]ermmawkward 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago (6 children)
Just make solo necro work once

[–]Mr_beeps 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (5 children)
Agreed....and if that's not enough they could add a timer, requiring you to revive within x amount of time.
I say this as a solo necro player when not on with my crew. Multiple revives is too much, one revive should be all you need to either fight back again or make your escape.

[–]you_are_invited -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (4 children)
Why? Teams of two or three can revive over and over (and endlessly with bounty). How is limiting solos to a single revive fair? We should BUFF necro so solos with bounty and revive until bounty is taken off their body.

[–]awaniwono 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Because you can stop teams from reviving. Like, literally making it impossible for them to revive.



[–]hawkxu -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
In duo match you could not revive in most of time. while solo still get insane revive ability. Remove necro rez in duo. I am fine with solo in trio match.



[–]jessemaaan  5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (4 children)
Best solution said by another user in a different discussion:
This will allow solo players to still survive trades, and long distance kills,  but not sit there for 10 mins waiting to revive, also stops the gameplay slowing down by having to burn/watch every solo.

[–]unflashystriking 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (3 children)
That would only be fair if the mechanic applied to any player you kill regardless of whether they play solo or in a team. Because if you kill two peole and the third runs away to hide, then you have the same situation.

[–]Antaiseito 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Because if you kill two peole and the third runs away to hide, then you have the same situation.
As a solo i thought so too at first, but with a missing trio person you can look for them or defend the bodies against them while they burn etc. 
With a solo you don't even know if it's worth it to sit there and grill them, they might have already left or they might get up randomly later.



[–]TheVocondus 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
My god, thank you.

[–]Dull_Concentrate4939 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (4 children)
Just throwing my vote out there for the fact that I believe teams already have a clear advantage. All solo necro rez does is give solos a chance, and that it is fine as it exists today.

[–]unflashystriking 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
true and based

[–]redubshank 1 point2 points3 points 29 days ago (1 child)
There is a solo mode.  If you want to be on an even playing field go play that mode.  If you choose to play solo against teams you should be at a disadvantage.





[–]VVonton 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
FINE! I played solo for a night......... Wow... I can't believe solos... So many extracts, so much money, so many high level hunters. Enemies are selected to be less skilled than me?!?! I'll drop solo when I need an ego boost, but dayum. This is nuts.
I prestige a lot and am typically poor. But now, I extract more, and get more money for extract. This is easier than I thought. I typically float around 4k money, but now I have 10k... I can finally play with the meta weapons I typically avoid.
​
TBH, this balancing is kinda azz, but w/e, might as well enjoy it minute.

[–]GerwinMusic 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
It makes the gameplay just boring, that's all.

[+]cygoreGH 3 points4 points5 points 22 days ago (0 children)
i won't be accepting any changes to solo necro unless necro for teams is also nerfed AND only then if red skull revive is removed from the game (or heavily nerfed so the reviver is a free kill just like a solo necro)
People complain about solo revive making the game "arcadey" (meaningless dribble), but apparently this mechanic that's been in the game since launch is fine. Never heard much crowing from the "if i kIlL you YoU sHOUld StAy dEaD" crew about redskull revive

[–]Canaureus 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Thank you mods

[–]ROOTvzn 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Honestly the solo necro is only a problem for players killing their mmr to abuse lower lobbies whether they play solo after the abuse or duos or trios, it’s all an issue. The deeper problem, tied in with having those players in your solo lobbies, to me is the mmr system for solo gameplay. It’s so difficult to get reasonable lobbies for solos. I’m typically 5 star, as I play randoms and solos. The only time I’ve ever truly gotten a chance at reasonable lobbies as a solo is when i drop to 4 star which never lasts more than a couple games if that. Even at 4 star though, you’re not guaranteed a full lobby of reasonable mmr stacks in comparison. The thing is MMR doesn’t mean anything, the KDR is what truly means something. Every team usually has a comparable player within .3-.5 kdr of myself and they even can be higher sometimes and then you toss two more players with them, it’s difficult.

[–]SexcaliburHorsepower 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Make solo revive cost an additional 25 hp. So you die, you lose a bar  you solo revive you lose a 25 bar.
Balance team revives. Make reviving a redskull cost a 50 bar. You must trade life to give life. Once a team is down to all 50 bars you can no longer redskull revive without a form of restoration.

[–]SAD-Simp 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I think your Idea actually not stupid. And could fix necro and red skulling entirely.



[–]Revverb 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Honestly, Blazeborn just needs to not affect downed hunters. That's literally the only problem. Solo rez has been around for a while, it's not a broken as people cry about it being, but the lack of burning IS an actual issue. This whole thing could be solved with Crytek pushing through a hotfix. Hell, Blazeborn would still be better than the other two pacts, even with ground burning disabled.

[–][deleted] 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (2 children)
self necro is good. solo play needed some buffs. especially in times when teams can revive themself limitless with bounty, of course timer and amount of health can be tweaked.



[–]Tral3n 7 points8 points9 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Just delete the trait(self rezz) , if u are solo, you are accepting the terms of being solo, am okay with the solo traits buffs , but if you die as a solo, you should take the L and move

[–]Antaiseito 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
As a solo player i'd be super fine with that. 
The magpie buff is already the key component to actually take and contest bounties without feeling helpless.



[–]rEplicant_rEject 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (1 child)
If y'all are worried about solos rezzing, have one or more of your team watch their body while you swap to the solo's guns and use up all their ammo.
Takes no time at all and then you don't have to worry about getting shot in the back after you leave 👍

[–]bonkers16 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (0 children)
This takes longer depending on the guns. A sparks would have 17 shots with a 4 second reload minus whatever was used in the fight, and that’s just one of his guns potentially. Not to mention a supply point has plenty of ammo for restocking unless he has custom ammo. Not to mention all the noise you’re making while doing this. If another team shows up, the solo could use the distraction to revive and kill you. 
I don’t get why people keep recommending this. It’s not a solution and it sure as hell isn’t fun to do.

[–]Johnathan-Proton 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Imo, solo necro is completely balanced and integral for the viability of solo gameplay.
However, infernal blazeborne has tipped the scales towards solos being overpowered. It SHOULD NOT keep downed hunters from burning. It could be a burn trait to fix this. 
This is literally the only aspect that needs rebalancing for solos.

[–][deleted] 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Thank you mods!!!

[–]crippleswagx 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
If you really wanted this thread to be about discussion you should have disabled up/downvotes.

[–]scotchneat1776 1 point2 points3 points 29 days ago (0 children)
It's literally better to be solo in this game now.  It's more likely if you die the person will not burn you and just run off, than if you had teammates and they revive you.  Such a dumb mechanic.

[–]AutumnSummit 1 point2 points3 points 2 days ago (0 children)
Playing solo. I get killed from 75 meters away.
They still had time to get to my corpse and kill me with a shotgun before I could revive and flee.
Anyone complaining that it’s OP needs a reality check.

[–]johnyakuza0 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Remove infernal effects from solo necro when they're downed. It's impossible to burn them out even with 4 hellfire bombs. Lanterns are a joke.

[–]jp3599 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (3 children)
The problem with solo necro is that a solo can now hold me and my team up for 5-10, hell maybe 15 minutes before we finally deal with him. By the time we've killed the solo it's already brought another team over or the bounty us extracting. On top of that, in multi-team fights a solo is often impossible to discern and will likely 3rd party you at the worst moment or rat you at the end of the fight, even if they are already downed! Solo necro is a net negative fir the game as a whole. My solution for this would be to cut it down to 1 self res max, maybe another if you banish as solo. Having to only down solos twice would make it more bearable.

[–]unflashystriking -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (2 children)
You decide to let the bounty get away because you are scared of one player. If a solo can third party you during a fight, any other hunter who gets necro-revived by a teammate also could.
You Sir have what people call a skillissue.



[–]ToM31337 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I have played a LOT of Hunt since the event started, i have met some Solos, even Rachta twice and some other Streamers. 
I dont even consider Solos as a huge threat - if they dont really outplay you, they are pretty weak and dont get me wrong, i have been outplayed by Solos but they just played better if they killed me or my team.  its not like they are a real threat, solo necro is way worse than team-necro. play your cards right and you can stand up like a solo in teams of 3 - just necro a lot and get resilience. THAT is actually overpowered IMO if played right - solos are just that - single players you have to keep down. its a nice and thrilling part of the game and the 10s revive is far from too good.  its actually pretty bad if you are in the middle of a fight. if you got killed by a solo its just that - he played you, its not overpowered or anything. you die a lot in this game
havent seen headhunters since the patch though - thats the only really annoying thing in hunt right now ;) game is great, have fun.



[–]Genin85 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (13 children)
This topic has been discussed several times.
To me it's necessary for the people who complain just to play as a solo for a few matches to realize that self revive is far from being OP, but it give a second chance (sometimes, not even that often).
Fighting a team and even getting third party by another one is HARD as a solo. They have 2/3 times your fire rate, they have 2/3 times the number of angles they can attack you, 2/3 times the time to patch yourself, 2/3 times your amount of bullets in reserve/heals/tools/consumables.
And anyway, once they down the solo, they procede to set on fire, cover in traps ecc...
It takes usually 1/2 bullets to kill a player in this game and it's plenty of special ammo that inflict status in a single shot (poison, fire, bleed) and the solo has absolutely no one covering them when they have to deal with it. 
If they die, they loose also one bar or more so that even if they self revive are even easier to get killed again.
If playn solo with self revive would guarantee easier matches, more people would play it.
But in reality, who complains, is scared to experience it or know very well that he would loose badly. It's easier to ask for a nerf to get an even easier life in teams instead.
Solos should be considered a team themselves... They self revive because they don't have nobody else doing it for them, you may have to kill them more than once like you have to kill all members of a team and they have an mmr advantage (that often it's not even the case) because it's freaking hard to fight several people alone.
Playn in both sides, it's not hard to understand this simple concept. Solos in our matches are teams who's advantages are way less than their advantages.
"oh but solos could just stay there forever and slow the game down since it takes time to burn 100% or we can't find anything to burn" if you think like that, than YOU are the freaking tryhard not the solo. YOU are slowing down the game just because you are so scare of a single guy with 75 hp left (example) would wipe your team even if you know that if he'll show up again, likely, he will be easely killed again.

[–]Cebo-chan 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (9 children)
If you honestly think solos should be considered a team on their own, you're so out of touch you're beyond recovery.

[–]Genin85 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (7 children)
It's not that I (myself) consider it a team on is own... It's literally the game. 
But you can still explain your position, why it should not be so?

[–]Cebo-chan 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (6 children)
I really shouldn't need to, man, but here goes. 
Have you played any other team game that allows crossplay between differently sized groups? Playing as a solo is supposed to be difficult, hence the INSANE rewards you get from it in hunt and other games. 
Trying to balance squads of solos, duos and trios for the same lobby would be fucking stupid.
Solos should be at a disadvantage, it's more fun and rewarding that way. Playing solo is a conscious choice. It's not forced on anyone. So why should a solo be as big of a threat as a full trio?

[+]PipTheOwlBarbarian 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (3 children)
Because I dislike playing with random teamates but still love to play the game without doing my best sweaty try hard impersonation when my friends aren't on. Most people I know don't play solo for the challenge, they play out because their friends aren't on.
Also EDIT: I have never really noticed the difference in rewards but honestly,  it's just money for my next load out. Most people run the same power level of load outs anyways so the boost just helps you keep playing good loadouts even with a smaller win rate. It's not like a hard advantage for playing solo.

[–]Cebo-chan 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
If you want solo to be buffed further somehow, I really can't see that happening, sorry man.

[–]PipTheOwlBarbarian 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Nah I'm good.  I just like it the way it is and recognize solo necro,  in some form or another,  is a healthy game addition for allowing people to play solo how they want to



[–]unflashystriking -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (1 child)
"Solos should be at a disadvantage, it's more fun and rewarding that way."
I do not think that many people would agree with you on that point.  
"Playing solo is a conscious choice. It's not forced on anyone."
Playing Hunt is a conscious choice. You are not forced to play the game.  
"So why should a solo be as big of a threat as a full trio?"
Because it makes the game more intense and interesting. I actually like that i can never be certain about an enemy hunter not beeing able to get back up.





[+][deleted] 1 month ago (2 children)
[removed]

[–]Genin85 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
That people who complain about solos self revive, are just asking for advantages instead of balance.
A solo is the team of his own, and doesn't need another nerf.

[–]alf666 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Finally, someone who cuts straight to the heart of these Necro-bashing losers.

[–]elukavics Bootcher 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago* (1 child)
For the record, I don't really have an issue with solo necro, but I understand that a lot of people do, and I think the crux of the issue boils down to people having a hard time just walking away from a solo they have killed without being able to 100% take that person out of the game so they don't have to deal with the uncertainty that situation creates for them.
Thus, my solution: Make Necro in general a burn trait with a two-point cost per charge with a maximum of three charges.
Part of the problem that people currently have (conceptually) is that theoretically a solo can revive as many times as they have health bars, which is compounded by also combining necro with event traits that restore bars, it makes a solo appear as if they can be an unstoppable terminator that can never be put down, which forces those players who cannot move on into feeling like they have to stick around to deal with that threat.
Limiting it to a maximum of three charges removes the association of the number of health bars from the equation and shifts it to a gamble of how much point investment someone made into the ability to potentially res up to a maximum of three times. I believe, psychologically, it will make it easier for those who feel like solo necro slows the game down too much to just move on with their game after killing a solo once or twice as it becomes statistically less likely that the individual solo will have invested the points necessary to res. more than once or twice, while also creating situations where the solo might actually get move value out of that heavy investment since people will actually move on and let them use it.
This will also help in the perception that people use necro to tank their MMR, as in order to do so, they would have to more heavily point invest into the trait to use it and it would also limit the number of times someone could use it in one match.
This also has the added benefit of soft nerfing team play necro revives, which unlimited nature I have never liked.
It should be treated as a resource across the board.

[–]unflashystriking 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
You play FPS-games for competition and challenge which is exactly why i have no problem with necro as it is right now. I actually like thrill of not knowing whether a player i downed gets up or not, it just makes the game more interesting. Self-revive is one of the best additions to the game they ever made.

[–]GhostChainSmoker Duck 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Yay mods

[–]cavsa2 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I just wish they'd add the ability to stomp on downed hunters. Necro problems? Stomp on them and chunk their health down until they're dead. Want to get your frustrations out after a particularly nasty fight? Stomp. Bored? Just start stomping.



[–]oldmanjenkins51 Bloodless  0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago* (20 children)
It’s very clearly all an MMR problem. Mechanically it’s perfectly balanced. We wouldn’t have so many issues if 3 star players weren’t the ones dealing with it the most.
If they made it so solos only matched .5-1 star down and shielded MMR drop for 30sec after self res but not for KD, the issues would slowly resolve over time.
At that point if anyone is still having issues, it’s a skill issue.

[–]Cebo-chan 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (19 children)
No one complaining cares if it's fair or not.
 It's so fucking easy to counter, but it's JUST NOT FUN TO DO.

[–]oldmanjenkins51 Bloodless  -5 points-4 points-3 points 1 month ago (18 children)
And no one is forcing you to camp the body. You only do it because you’re afraid to fight them again. Which is understandable given the MMR disparity

[–]Cebo-chan 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (17 children)
So countering necro the only way you can, is me being afraid?
The optimal choice for me is to get this player out now, so I have a higher chance of winning the game later on vs bounty team etc.
The optimal choice for the solo is to pray I'm reckless enough to leave them alone once I've got them downed, or go for a hail mary or two. 
You see how neither of these optimal choices are fun for anyone involved?
It's not strong, nor broken, just plain old boring. You could say I'm the one making it boring by playing it optimally, but that's the game's fault, and the nature of the mechanic. I want to win. And so do you.
The trait just needs tweaks, that's all.

[–]PipTheOwlBarbarian -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
I disagree. Having just started playing solo necro as a mid mmr, it is actually very fun even if im playing "optimally", the least fun part about it is if the team im against plays optimally and wastes 2-3 minutes of everyone's time,  but at the end of the day I dont really get too upset cause I know that if they want, they are a team and still have an advantage.friendly reminder though, just because it is optimal, doesn't mean it's the best way to play. It is a video game and is mainly there for entertainment. The way I see it, necro just allows a solo to play the game they love in a way the love (not being a sniper who avoids all risks) even if their friend isn't on at the moment.

[–]oldmanjenkins51 Bloodless  0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago* (15 children)
You guys can never decide if it’s mechanically unbalanced or just boring. Pick one. If you find camping the body boring then just let them get up. More fighting, more fun.

[–]hawkxu 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
it is not fun to get shot at back. Solo never told me hi let’s have fun, they just directly shoot my back when revive. Is shooting back fun for solo? NO! They just want win. Then why blame body camp “avoid fight”?

[–]PipTheOwlBarbarian 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Honestly kinda is. More fighting is indeed more fun. Just place an alarm on every corpse so you know whether they come back, then turn around and fight again.

[–]Cebo-chan -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (11 children)
When did I say it was mechanically unbalanced?
Literally just making stuff up because you don't have a proper argument.
Its mechanics are forcing both players (if they play it optimally) into boring and non-engaging scenarios.
And if the optimal way to counter something is either waiting and hoping, or watching a body burn then... 
If you really can't see how it might need tweaks then idk what to tell you man, maybe learn to think for yourself instead of parroting the opinions of every other closed-minded necro enjoyer on this sub.

[–]oldmanjenkins51 Bloodless  3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (10 children)
How is watching a solo’s body any different than watching one of a trio you’ve killed’s body, besides it being way easier and less stressful. Again, if it’s boring then just let them get up.

[–]Cebo-chan 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (9 children)
You're still currently engaged with players in that scenario, I honestly couldnt care less if they removed necro from trios and duos. Nice strawman attempt lol.
Now argue my actual stance, if you can.

[–]oldmanjenkins51 Bloodless  2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (6 children)
You’re proving my point. If you can’t deal with the mechanics, it’s a skill issue. If they’re down they’re already outnumbered and missing health. All they need to do is make MMR changes.

[–]Cebo-chan 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (5 children)
My dear sweet jesus. Are you serious?
Literally a whole segment of my original comment was dedicated to saying I dont think its op, and i dont find it difficult to counter.
Are you a bot or something?



[–]PipTheOwlBarbarian 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Just don't play optimally. No one is forcing you to and it's less fun to do so anyways. Leave an alarm on the corpse to know if they get up, and deal with them later. I have often just extracted after a single failed revive to save the hinter





[–]Ontyyyy Bootcher 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
How to nerf NECRO: 
If downed player is looted, disable the trait for SOLO players and for DUOS and TRIOs make the person be unable to be revived using NECRO. Alternatively start a countdown for the self-revive withhin which you have to get up.
This way SOLOS who got killed by some hobosniper from 1,5 half compound away, can revive but you dont have to BABYSIT them if you showed a shotgun down their throat.
For duos and trios, it also boosts your chance as a solo, because you can effectively punish BAD team-play.. You dont have to babysit a corpse while getting harrased by 1 player with the 3rd necroing...
This will also make Solo vs Solo more enjoyable, because when a solo guy kills a solo necro he doesnt really have too many choices, he cant look for lanters while keeping an eye on the corpse.

[–]IndoZoro 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago* (2 children)
As someone who has always played solo there's a couple of ways to fix the "feels bad" part of solo revive mechanic

[–]Antaiseito 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
For MMR purposes, a solo should only count their deaths once vs their lowest ranked killer
I'd even say against the highest ranked killer. That's probably the one that actually killed you, not the one that just sat there and waited for the revive. (I don't want to fight completely new players after a few yolo necro attempts.)

[–]PipTheOwlBarbarian 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I think you have some good points. If you make it a burn trait though, it definitely needs to be unilateral though as that would give an unfair advantage to groups. Also I think yes time limit,  but maybe just a 2 minute or so limit and not a fixed revive timer as that would make it almost unusable if someone just has to wait exactly thirty seconds to shoot someone. Also yes love the reverse banish thing

[–]Pensive_Psycho 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Solo necro should be removed. Or even the trait itself should be removed would be another good alternative.

[–]LeftRedEye -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (2 children)
If you start the game solo you automatically get 3 big 50 hp chunks. No matter what chunks you had in lobby, you load on the map with 3 big chunks which means 2 max revives. Ez

[–]bottlecandoor 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
That is unfortunately a hack on a hack. Necromancer already feels like a hack gameplay fix. And now you want to fix it with another hack. It is usually better to fix the original problem than try to play the patching game which can go on forever.

[–]Teerlys 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Unnecessary. Blazeborn preventing burning is the major problem. Fix that and it's back to being a skill issue.

[–]Rata-tat-tat -5 points-4 points-3 points 1 month ago (13 children)
There's a reason the sub is cluttered with them. It's clearly an issue to a large part of the community and by sweeping it under the rug people will just quietly quit instead.

[–]temest4 Magna Veritas 22 points23 points24 points 1 month ago* (3 children)
sweeping it under the rug? Everything has already been said and discussed. There‘s literally ppl on this sub that spend countless hours reposting their arguments under every single post and flaming around. It‘s annoying. There‘s more to Hunt than „selfrez bad pls nerf“ and „you need xyz amount of lanterns… yada yada“.

[+]Deathcounter0 comment score below threshold-12 points-11 points-10 points 1 month ago (2 children)
„you need xyz amount of lanterns… yada yada“.
Yeah nice isn't it, forcing an item (firebomb) because lanterns only remove 1 bar and before you say "Solos rarely ever do that" doesn't mean it's not possible mathmatically.
Fact is, in theory you need up to 4 lanterns to redskull a solo, 1 per HP chunk. Just because solos don't know about it yet, or not doing it for whatever reason (even though it's the best thing to garantuee you stay in the game), doesn't mean it's not an issue.
So yeah, self revive is a pace-breaker and tedious. Even without the event. Using a firebomb was always needed for solos unless you want to rely on RNG to loot a firebomb out of him or search for 4 lanterns.
The only difference now is that you need 1 firebomb and 1 lantern afterwards for 5 seconds and since salveskin doesn't work with blazeborne, you would arguably have to wait even less time if he has blazeborne instead of salveskin.

[–]temest4 Magna Veritas 10 points11 points12 points 1 month ago (0 children)
bruh, you clearly didn‘t get the message that I‘m kinda fed up with these posts and not even gonna bother to read all that.

[–]WaitWatchWater 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Just trap the body and leave lol. Sounds like a skill issue

[–]Snowymew2[S] 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago* (2 children)
I agree, however I don’t believe this is sweeping it under the rug, this is providing a central area that if Crytek wants to they can find every point/argument for and against this issue.
As it is all the posts are scattered into the sub and each contains only fragments of the discussion.

[–]removekarling 10 points11 points12 points 1 month ago (2 children)
wdym sweeping it under the rug? i barely see solos, when I do they're usually dead already. 80% of the time they're in the game I'm pretty sure they're just pve farming and leaving. It's such a non-issue, the only two real problems are the infernal pact being overturned + matchmaking issues where solo revive makes your MMR lower than it probably should be for fairness.
Yet come on this sub, and you'd think solos are winning 95+% of lobbies out there easy lol

[–]Deathcounter0 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
My man has clearly never played duos in 3.5 star matchmaking range. I have when I introduced a friend of mine to hunt.
Solo is the easiest way to make money right now if you have hands though.

[–]removekarling 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I have, don't really play it much. Yeah duo lobbies is really just mostly solos fair lol. But even then most there just seem to fuck about with pve I found

[–]lifeisgood789 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (0 children)
It‘s always the same guys who are cluttering this sub and not a large part of the community. Pls don‘t mix this up. Even if there would be 3 posts daily it still wouldn‘t mean, that this is a large part of the community if there are ~15k players +- x who are playing the game and don‘t complain. Just do the maths.

[–]fongletto -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
The mods obviously support necro. So they can ban the topic while pretending they're being impartial. The topic will die of naturally itself when crytek changes it due to the feedback. But instead of waiting for that, they'll just hide the feedback.

[–]KermitmentIssues Bootcher[M] 5 points6 points7 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I personally find the mechanic annoying. I've been playing since Closed Alpha, and I don't even believe self revive needed to be/should have been added. And I say this as someone who quite enjoys playing solo. Do I think it's game breaking? No. Would I prefer it to not exist? Sure.
We all have different opinions on Hunt and it's mechanics, but as mods, on the subreddit side of things, we prioritize the health of the sub and community over personal opinions.

[–]Odd-Permit8731 -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (9 children)
Only people who complain about solo revive are bad players.

[–]twisty_sparks Bootcher -3 points-2 points-1 points 1 month ago (0 children)
True

[+][deleted] 1 month ago (5 children)
[removed]

[–]Odd-Permit8731 -3 points-2 points-1 points 1 month ago (4 children)
sorry not gonna care what some 2 and 3 stars have to say. 4 is regular 5 is good players.

[–]awaniwono 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (3 children)
Wrong. Most players are 3*. The average player is in the frontier between 3 and 4.
https://huntplayers.com/stats

[–]Odd-Permit8731 -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Average player is bad

[–]awaniwono 6 points7 points8 points 1 month ago (0 children)
"average is below average" lmao

[–]error3000 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
average player is average, if average player was bad then above average players would be average which doesnt make much sense as you might see



[–]LogicalLetterhead272 -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Just make solo lobbies separate from duo and trio lobbies. Boom problem solved.

[–]unflashystriking 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Even bigger problem introduced because the playerbase is not big enough to allow for that.

[–]TheLambtonWyrm 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
This will be just like the MMR change megathread. 
For containment and nothing more 😅

[–]Romandinjo -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
So, I can only remember a single occurence where solo cost me a match, and that was when they third-partied us. But I can't deny, that current implementation is overtuned slightly, just because there are a lot of nuances:
1. I'm not counting inferno pact, as that is obviously causing issues, both with unable to get fire, and full heal on a kill, which isn't hard with 1shot-headshot mechanics.
MMR reduction allows to place oneselves into a cosy bracket, and even derank further. That shouldn't be a thing, I think, as it's an obvious choice of solo players - to go, well, solo, against the players. 
Yes, downed players can be countered - by traps, lanterns, consumables. But traps severely limit one's loadout, consumables as well, and lanterns might not be available, also unusable in water. Also, for each counter there is a countering trait or consumable - salvesking, bloodless, poison shot, each of these is fairly cheap.  
Solo can revive for as long as they have health chunks, and can revive with up to full health. Also has some bad interaction with point 1.
So yeah, with everything considered it can be frustrating and unfun. I would start with removal of MMR loosening, and see from there - maybe it'll solve all the issues. Maybe make it a burn trait, maybe transform it into a death cheat.

[–]lord_khadow 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Spitballing and throwing ideas out there because ... Why not?
You could link the ability to revive to how the hunter died.
Head shot: sorry, outta luck. No revive. (Or if you must, 32 seconds before you get up)
Torso shot: revive, but wait 16 seconds
Arm /leg shot: revive but wait 8 seconds
Rewards those high skill / high bs headshots :D

[–]philax 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
I don't believe there is actually an issue. It's fun for solos too have another boon even if temporary. When I play non-solo I have a good time anyways and just trap sus solos and run. Nbd.

[–]unflashystriking 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
true and based

[–]lidde6904 -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (4 children)
Idk. Never had a problem with solos and never really understood the issue. Sure it's not perfect but is it really THAT big of a deal? Even if 6-star in 4-star lobby, they are still in a disadvantage and even if you dont have anything to handle their downed boddies, they will still be one-tap. Don't want to be that guy but it just sounds like people are getting trigged after losing a 3v1

[–]crippleswagx 6 points7 points8 points 1 month ago (3 children)
Have you ever been 6 star playing against 4 stars? Its like stomping on ants.

[–]lidde6904 -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Sure there are changes that can impove the solo mechanic but solo is not op, its a disadvantage. The problem is people dont know how to play vs solo

[–]lidde6904 -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (1 child)
No its not. Sure they are better obviously but three 4-stars should beat a 6-star 80% of the times. 4-stars can shoot and there is only so much, you can do as a solo. The only reason people lose fight 3v1 is because they are playing through the 6-stars conditions

[–]crippleswagx 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Damn, you could have just told me you were 4 star if this is what you think would happen in an uncoordinated low star team.

[–]TheX37th Hive -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (3 children)
Honestly it isn't as bad as everyone makes it out to be. Carry poison or concertina or both. It is definitely annoying to deal with at times but solo necro is a non issue. 
What is an issue is infernal pact plus necro solo. All they have to do before a fight is pop an antidote shot and they are immune to every status practically. 
I love the idea of the infernal pact, but it is undoubtedly incredibly powerful not only for solos, but for teams as well. 
Death pact is insanely strong too, but is totally overshadowed by the fact infernal pact is straight up busted.

[+][deleted] 1 month ago (1 child)
[removed]

[–]TheX37th Hive 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
one type of player that you probably only see one to two of in a match. vs the multiple items that you end up burning through during a team fight

[–]Mysterious_Chef_6956 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Resilience + antidote shot makes your traps worthless

[–]crowse_ 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Time to make r/HuntShowdownLowSodium

[–]alf666 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Or we could ban all the whiners from this subreddit, and make /r/HuntShowdownSaltMine.

[–]REEL-MULLINS Magna Veritas 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
r/HuntShowdownSaltMine
Sign me up

[–]Strange-Tomorrow-696 0 points1 point2 points 13 days ago (0 children)
ITT: friendless losers (solos) are mad nobody wants them to be an annoyance in their game

[–]SirCatsup 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Most times I engage teams as a solo if that team wipes me and I Can rez. I fuck off from them farm up a bit and either go for bounty or extract. When I drop a solo, loot, trap leave. If they have necro they are still a threat but less with missing health. As a necro user, though, it should only be one revive. Not as many revives as possible.

[–]Gamernerd_42 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I don’t have a problem with necro. I do think it should be limited to 2 uses and have a limit on how long you can wait to use it. I also think inferno makes it too strong as you can’t burn it.

[–]Red_Beard206 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Hey! I'm new to the game and I play solo. I just got my hands on the Necro trait. In my last match, I was running for extraction when I noticed one bounty still hadn't been picked up. I figured I might as well give it a try. Ran in, grabbed it, died. Realized I had Necro. Waited a few minutes. Then popped back up and ran to extract.  
Couldn't I always do this? I guess the main concern would be if my body is lit on fire. Especially since I have blazeborn, which from what I gather, makes me immune to fire even when I'm downed. As long as I have health chunks and patience, whats stopping me from waiting around in a downed state to just get up and extract after everyone is gone?   
Also, is there any way to tell if a player is down but not out? I killed 2 solos this run but didn't have fire so I stared at their bodies for a couple minutes each before moving on lol



[–]gg3265 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
MMR modification was there to make the game fairer for solos as they were going against teams and could die fast, it used to be hardcore, now with necro they have a more agile gameplay, can revive and on top the event traits give them basically an immortal trait. not burning, not bleeding, antidote ofcourse helps too. 
i am a solid 5 stars players, going up to 6 often when i play in a trio, down to 4 when i go solo. i have wiped servers as a solo 4 or 5 stars, they had zero chances. some of them had less than 100 kills (i have over 7k). 
if the event related traits go after the event, only problem left is the mmr modification, which has to be reworked, it is plain unfair and slaughter seeing new players go against veterans, even if its a solo. 
the mmr also needs a rework in matter of downranking and upranking, it has to be changed and SS and BH need seperate mmr same as they do for the KDR, this way many fancy pants p100 with 2-3 KDR would stop abusing new players as 3 stars. 
Camping is a part of the game, no doubt in that, being a sneaky sniper is oki, but it needs some countering, let leechs or AI spawn when a hunter stays in one place for certain time (counts for all but will help go against solo sniper that are really good at being 200+m away with mosins), the game punishs more if you push or rush a team, the more passive you gameplay is, the more reward you get.

[–]TyrannosaurusPat 0 points1 point2 points 3 days ago (1 child)
Honestly just fix the whole revive mechanic, give an option to "finish off" a hunter if you get on their body and set it to red skull. Make it take like 5-10 seconds to preform and no one can revive during the timer of it. Would punish solos and teams who get out of position which is better balance over all.



[+]Slizzley 0 points1 point2 points 2 days ago (0 children)
Today i died to a shotgun (10m distance) after i banished the boss (boss wasnt red).
It turns out the solo guy killed himself in boss lair then used self revive after he heard banish sound. SELF REVIVE IS THE WORST GAME DESIGN

[–]_Ganoes_ -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (2 children)
It just slows down the gameplay so much it should be limited to 1 or 2 revives per round or just make it a burn trait or smth..

[+]zNiiCz comment score below threshold-6 points-5 points-4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Burn trait seems like the most reasonable suggestion I've read, maybe even a slight time increase back to 10 seconds?



[+]idhwbai comment score below threshold-8 points-7 points-6 points 1 month ago* (0 children)
I see no problem with solo necro nor infernal stuff. Everything is cool

[–]SlitherPix -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (0 children)
What about having to "charge" your Necro? Like you need 2 kills in order to revive once. Resets when extracting

[–]RealTonny -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (4 children)
My crackhead solution (plz don't take it too seriously):
 Solo necro revives you as a ghost. You have 3s complete invincibility (and you can pass through walls), another 3s you are only vulnerable to meele damage, but you cannot attack (also no passing through walls) after that you are 100% back. And you only have like 30s to res after death. Will it be more fair? Hell no! Will playing a game of tag be more fun, than babysitting a burning body? Probably.

[–]REEL-MULLINS Magna Veritas 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Just have them climb out of the nearest clue on revive. I would also make it so you bring your partners soul to the nearest clue and perform a ritual to connect it to the underworld in order to revive them.
Something more lore accurate than watching your buddy getting his brains splashed on a wall and you just run over and help him back up.





[+][deleted] 1 month ago (2 children)
[deleted]

[+][deleted] 1 month ago (1 child)
[removed]

[–]Tvdinner4me2 -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (5 children)
Mega threads are counter productive imo
Yes there are a lot of threads but that's kind of the point
We want crytek to see. Protests are supposed to be disruptive

[–]esplin9566 4 points5 points6 points 1 month ago (3 children)
So you would be OK with everyone who is on the other side of the fence making an equal number of spam posts about how solo necro is fine right?

[–]KermitmentIssues Bootcher[M] 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
As of now, all Solo-Necro discussions can be directed to this thread.

[–]alf666 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I think they were talking about a hypothetical, in response to the particularly "special" take by OP.



[–]KermitmentIssues Bootcher[M] 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Except the volume of threads isn't disruptive to anyone but the rest of the community. This isn't an official sub, so it's not disruptive to Crytek. At all. It isn't having the type of impact people would like to believe. At least now we can communicate to Crytek that there was need of a megathread for the complaints, and link them to the one thread.

[–]twisty_sparks Bootcher -5 points-4 points-3 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Skill issue

[–]unflashystriking -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
true and based



[–]alf666 -3 points-2 points-1 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Let's run a quick check for the serial complainers... yup, they are all here, as expected.

[–]Antaiseito 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
That's the obvious point of a megathread.

[–]Mmiksha -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Solos get max 2 revives and have to use them within 90 seconds each. Everyone gets what they claim they want without totally removing the usefulness of the trait

[–]XvXGhastlyGamingXvX -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Can I ask why these were Needed ? Why rezzing people who lost all there health was a good idea ? I am confused.
I've said it before, there was always this high rick factor .. high energy to this game. it made it exciting knowing there was a chance you was not gonna get home in one piece. Remember them days you got hurt in a fight, might have lost 2 health bars and with more enemies on the map .. your desperate run to get to the boss to get your bars back becomes job #1.
I believe both of these ideas has changed the feeling of the game.. long gone are the days of heart Pulse pounding fights because heh ..now I can just come back from the dead like 17 times ... Like literally I feel like we dumbed down the game. For the most part I reserve my thoughts on what Crytek does because I love the game. But man does it not feel like the same game anymore.
Now players gotta trap and or baby sit solos .. (As a Solo its not fun being killed 4 to 5 times in a row just as much as its not fun for you to have to camp us for 10 mins" And teams of 3 and 2 just red skull rez to the point we see numbers like 17 kills in one game.
Help me out on understanding why solo rez even became a thing ? As a Solo I knew going in I have one chance to even the odds , I have one chance to gain the advantage in a fight and If I mess that up .. IM DEAD. back to the lobby and do it again. Is this Not a team based game ? If I choose to go in solo that's on me? right? I mean whats Quickplay if not for solos ? .. Why are we giving solos any extra ANYTHING? YOU Choose to take on that risk of running into a trio/duo but now you wanna cry foul ? and you need something more to compete with Trios ?
Red Skull rez ... WHAT in the ever Living ? whats next? no red skull just infinity rez's .. like where are we going to draw the line. Why keep moving the goal post on things that seemed like "thats the point of the game. As a Solo I Don't agree with the solo rez, And red skull rez just takes the suspense and excitement out of the fights .. THE fights can and are in most cases amazing and fun. but its not the same anymore and I am dumbfounded to why these were implemented and needed.

[–]greatmidge -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Remove necro entirely.  It is also unfair for a solo to have to bring traps to prevent a team of 3 from continuously necro'ing their teammates.

[–]chili6f -5 points-4 points-3 points 1 month ago (1 child)
As a fan of playing solo necro, solo necro needs to be nerfed somehow. 7 seconds is too quick to be able to be back up and blasting. One thought I've had is being able to go up to dead solo hunters and reset their 7 second timer. Also adding some particle effect to solo necro hunters to know when it's something to be concerned with. It's exhausting assuming every dead body could come back and kill you.
I also think a longer timer would be good as well. As it stands, if you kill a hunter and run away, they can necro and shoot you in the back, 7 seconds just isn't enough time to run away safely. 30 seconds would give you enough time to escape without facing immediate retaliation.

[–]REEL-MULLINS Magna Veritas 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
As a fan of playing solo necro
Oh the deception. The betrayal. Man, you deceived me.

[–]LaughingPrince -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (16 children)
I play with friends and as a solo. It is becoming only fun to play as a solo. A friend and I partook in some scummy behavior of both solo que teaming for the best of both worlds.
Honestly, I don't want to see solo necro go, but more health bars need to be taken for self rez, or the timer needs to up to 30 seconds, or do some gulag bullshit where the solo is teleported to some hellish dimension where they can re enter the map by completing a ritual or something. 
I also think necromancer is just op, and the perk should either cost more trait points, be a burn trait, or it should always drain teammates' health when necro reading.
Just an opinion of 1000 plus hours of playing. Might not be the most adequate fix.
Don't kill me.

[–]handsomezacc Saint_Ugfuglio 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (15 children)
A friend and I partook in some scummy behavior of both solo que teaming for the best of both worlds.
Cool. So you think it's OP, benefited from it, and then used to help you cheat? You're a loser.

[–]Pensive_Psycho 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (13 children)
Weird how without the trait what they do would put them at a huge disadvantage. Almost like self res is horrible design.

[–]handsomezacc Saint_Ugfuglio -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (12 children)
If anyone can be rezed magically from a bullet to the head, solos should be fine doing it too. Never once have I ever had a problem with it at all when fighting solos.

[–]Pensive_Psycho 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (10 children)
I had Solo stand up 4 times in a row when i was also solo in the boss compound also fighting bounty targets. And i had thrown a concertina on him. It's an awful mechanic and ruins the flow of the game. 
Had it been a partner i could have dealt with it by pushing and putting pressure on his friend. That's a bullshit mechanic and the game was far better off before it was introduced

[–]handsomezacc Saint_Ugfuglio 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (9 children)
A team can pick up four times, easy. That bounty team could've have done it much more than four times. 
 As far as "flow" goes, that is the dumbest excuse by far. The flow of the game is so subjective. As I've said before, concertina campers ruin the flow of the game for me, but to the people inside are having a blast. Rats ruin the flow of the game for me, but they don't owe me a play style as they are quick to remind me when I belly ache and they are right.

[–]Pensive_Psycho 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (8 children)
You missed one of my biggest points and apparently on purpose since you had no argument against it. Then you compare the mechanic to people simply playing in a way you find boring or unfun instead of a badly designed mechanic and the two aren't comparable at all.
You're not arguing seriously so I'm done.

[–]handsomezacc Saint_Ugfuglio -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (7 children)
Badly designed is also subjective. There are plenty of us who think it's totally fine. Be done, though, please.

[–]Pensive_Psycho 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (6 children)
You didn't argue my point because you couldn't. Just want you to remember that before you pretend you're smarter than you are.







[–]you_are_invited -3 points-2 points-1 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Reiterating this from another comment, but y'all are some crybabies. You don't complain about having to watch bodies for teams of two or three. But a single solo? Teams of two or three can revive over and over (and endlessly with bounty). We should BUFF necro so solos with bounty can revive until bounty is taken off their body. And I don't even play solo! So tired of seeing these anti-solo necro posts. Thank you mods for the Megathread.

[–]unflashystriking 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (0 children)
" You don't complain about having to watch bodies for teams of two or three. But a single solo? Teams of two or three can revive over and over (and endlessly with bounty)."
Necro-self-revive just levels the playing field. You are completely right.

[–]bonkers16 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Teams have two methods of elimination: burning, or all members down at the same time. I’d wager 90% of team eliminations are from downing rather than burning. Why? It’s more fun to fight. Burning is only used as a way to pressure surviving teammates rather than actual elimination. 
Solos have only one method of elimination: burning. Sure, you could kill them until they’re out of bars, but that requires waiting for the solo to choose to revive, which they may not for several minutes. Burning forces the choice, so it’s the go to method. Unfortunately, the way burning works in this game makes it an unreliable method because it relies on the availability of world items or consumables. Not to mention that reviving extinguishes a burning hunter, requiring another source of fire each revive. 
The point is not that solos are at an advantage (though I’d argue they are in the case of duos), but that because burning is the only reliable method of elimination, solos are a pain to actually keep down.
Thanks to resilience, traps don’t work. Thanks to antidotes, poison won’t work. And although temporary, burning now won’t work without even more time and resource investment. 
Like it or not, players have a legitimate gripe about the flow of gameplay when dealing with a solo player. In duos, if a solo gets the drop on a team, now it’s 1v1 against a player who sees death as a mere inconvenience and is likely more skilled than you thanks to the mmr adjustments solos get. It’s a real issue that won’t get attention unless players speak up.

[+]mukavva -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (10 children)
Give it max 1 charge that only replenishes after getting a kill.
This makes it rewarding for the solo without being annoying for the teams to deal with a corpse that keeps coming back up.
So if they trap your body, that's it for you. It's basically the equivalent of decapitating a corpse. Maybe you can buff the revive time to 5-7 seconds (just enough time for your killer to heal up for a fair 2nd fight, but not enough to heal + trap your corpse). Since you only get 1 chance.
Solo necro doesn't have to be strong or even exist in the first place. Solos are already incentivized to play by getting 2x-3x the reward.

[–]you_are_invited 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (9 children)
How is that balanced with teams can revive over and over again? Teams can even revive endlessly with bounty. Necro needs to be buffed so solos can revive as long as they have possess a bounty.

[+]mukavva 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (7 children)
What makes you think solos should be as powerful as teams? Its supposed to be a challange to go in solo. Thats why you are getting x2-x3 reward.

[–]you_are_invited 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (6 children)
Going 1v2 or 1v3 is a HUGE disadvantage. Having no teammate to watch your dead body is a HUGE disadvantage. The rewards are not that great, personally, I couldn't tell you the last time I needed money, and if you don't care about bloodline because you're not prestiging, the 2x-3x rewards don't mean anything.

[+]mukavva 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (4 children)
Dont play solo then. Noone forcing you to go solo. Its  just a challange you impose on yourself.

[–]you_are_invited 3 points4 points5 points 1 month ago (2 children)
I literally never play solo.

[+]mukavva 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Ok so whats the problem?

[–]you_are_invited 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
The sub filled with people complaining about a non-issue is the problem.







[–]SirClark -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Necro should be a one time use/burn trait. That goes for solos and for groups. One time per trait purchase. And it shouldn’t stack. And being able to revive dead teammates with a bounty should also be limited to a one time use. Just end this fucking debate. This would work and would appease both sides.

[–]WildLeon -1 points0 points1 point 1 day ago (1 child)
I just had someone sit and wait for 7 minutes to necro while my teammates and I fought two teams off the bounty. Only for them to self rez and shoot us in the back from a bush. Necro needs to be on a one-minute timer. Your soul leaves your body if you don't rez within one minute. Gone. So you can rez five times, but if you sit there for half the match you shouldn't get rewarded.



[+]Informal-Concern-311 comment score below threshold-6 points-5 points-4 points 1 month ago (0 children)
solution to fix solo necro issue: improve, so your skill is above 4 stars.

[+]fongletto comment score below threshold-9 points-8 points-7 points 1 month ago (3 children)
Creating a mega thread, the mods way of saying of silencing an issue while still pretending they are not. 
I guess we know which side the mods are on. The issue will resolve itself when crytek addresses the feedback.

[–]like2playwfire 9 points10 points11 points 1 month ago (2 children)
Literally the opposite. Anyone opening the sub reddit it's literally stuck as one of the first posts you see. That's putting the issue front and center, unavoidable.

[–]fongletto -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
If that's the way it works then it's my mistake, but in every other subreddit I've been a part of, they have a bunch of "megathreads" that can only be found if you search for them. They're not pinned at the top. (or they are for a week until the topic dies down and then its unpinned)



[–]AnnualJaguar2 -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Necromancer should be a (stackable) burn trait. Would fix the problem for everyone.

[–]Potential_Ratio_9355 -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Also my opinion. But i would say not stackable, only one use..

[+]astrozombie2012 comment score below threshold-8 points-7 points-6 points 1 month ago* (1 child)
This is ridiculous… lol
So, anyone who wants to discuss necro and the issues it may or may not have, has to go sit in the corner so they don’t bother anyone else with legitimate concerns? I suppose we’ll still see low effort meme posts all day though right?
Masterful moderation… lol
Edit: I just think this a counterproductive move, I get this isn’t an official sub and there’s nothing anyone here can do about Necro, I just don’t agree with stifling the conversation. 90% of the stuff in this sub is just memes and bitching anyway lol

[–]CadetriDoesGames Hive -9 points-8 points-7 points 1 month ago (10 children)
Megathreads are censorship. We're extremely privileged in that we have Crytek's ear on this sub, and as players I don't think it's in our best interest to bury the topics that we most want to devs to hear feedback on.
Just my $0.02

[–]Snowymew2[S] 8 points9 points10 points 1 month ago (9 children)
I disagree with the censorship aspect, I don’t see how organizing a place that people can actively engage without disrupting other people’s experiences is a censorship. Especially when it is pinned to the top of the subreddit for clear visibility. 
I can see the point that people make with the volume of posts being an argument however more people will engage in this format over some people responding to some posts here and there. 
This will also avoid the issue of people (who aren’t as passionate about the topic) from becoming numb to the discussion from seeing it over and over again whenever they want to look at the sub. 
Just my $0.02 which isn’t worth too much in this economy tbh

[–]Gohan_Son 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (8 children)
Because it’s much harder to parse individual thoughts/ideas here in one massive comment thread and it doesn’t pressure Crytek at all to take action. The subreddit being filled with discussion about a mechanic shows Crytek that it’s a hot issue and Crytek knows that new players are going to have to see this issue before deciding on getting the game.
Pinned posts are also minimized on mobile. This thread makes the problem entirely ignorable essentially. That’s why it can come across as censorship.

[–]ThisdudeisEHModerator[M] 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (7 children)
Pinned posts are not minimized under “hot” settings but are on “new”. So it’s literally the first thing a new redditor would see if they haven’t adjusted their settings.

[–]Gohan_Son 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (6 children)
Minimized as in they take up less space on the feed and most scroll past them. I’m on basic settings and yes, they’re smaller. Even “expanded.” That’s not exactly the point of what I mentioned though.

[–]ThisdudeisEHModerator[M] 0 points1 point2 points 1 month ago (5 children)
That is what you said. We have 2 pinned posts we are allowed. My entire phone on “hot” is the 2 pins when I open the subreddit. We can’t pin anything else so when crytek has something to pin it’s either the event or this and it won’t be this as it’s here for a reason. There are a few CM in the sub who mainly lurk. How do you think it looks if their is a pinned thread on a “bad” mechanic?

[–]Gohan_Son 2 points3 points4 points 1 month ago (4 children)
Definitely not the case here on “hot.” And again, that’s not the main point of my comment at all. It looks like a completely ignorable non-issue by the way for the reasons mentioned above.

[–]ThisdudeisEHModerator[M] -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (3 children)
https://ibb.co/QMZ2pyg
https://ibb.co/WH10Gjb
Shown here clearly at the top on mobile app and on mobile browser. 
The main point of your comment was addressed. Complaints/support compilation for easier reference and viewing.

[–]Gohan_Son 1 point2 points3 points 1 month ago (2 children)
The main point of your comment was addressed. Complaints/support compilation for easier reference and viewing.
This is the main point of my comment:
Because it’s much harder to parse individual thoughts/ideas here in one massive comment thread and it doesn’t pressure Crytek at all to take action. The subreddit being filled with discussion about a mechanic shows Crytek that it’s a hot issue and Crytek knows that new players are going to have to see this issue before deciding on getting the game.
The pinned post comment was just an addition for anyone that has a feed like this due to either settings changes or necessity. I think I'm being very clear in what I'm talking about and I don't really care to talk about the pinned post thing anymore as that's not the point I was making. Thanks.

[–]ThisdudeisEHModerator[M] -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (1 child)
"Because it’s much harder to parse individual thoughts/ideas here in one massive comment thread and it doesn’t pressure Crytek at all to take action. The subreddit being filled with discussion about a mechanic shows Crytek that it’s a hot issue and Crytek knows that new players are going to have to see this issue before deciding on getting the game."  
The whole AMA format and previous pinned posts would like a word with you.



[–]fongletto -4 points-3 points-2 points 1 month ago (6 children)
If you want to buff solos, do it in a way that doesn't ruin the competitive integrity of the game for trios. You have so many other ways to do it without ruining the actual in game PVP balance.
Refund a portion of the cost of the loadout if they die, increase the reward for bounties even more. Give them a free 'death cheat' that lets them keep their stuff if they die. Prioritize them into smaller lobbies with more solo's.



[–]Full-Campaign-7730 -8 points-7 points-6 points 1 month ago (5 children)
gonna guess the devs asked the mods to make this topic disappear so now there is an easy to ignore megathread.

[–]Mrcrest 13 points14 points15 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Lol what kind of conspiracy grade bullshit are you smoking bro? 
Relax, we’re all just here to discuss a mechanic in a game we all love.

[–]KermitmentIssues Bootcher[M] 10 points11 points12 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Bayou fumes will do things to ya
Last week I tried to use Darksight to locate the lemon juice at my local Fred Meyer.

[–]KermitmentIssues Bootcher[M] 6 points7 points8 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Nope. We do our own thing; this isn't an official sub.

[–]BarryWhite58 -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (0 children)
I like solo necromancer. Especially with trades being so common(please get rid of trades I hate it). Anyways, I think there are changes that can be made to it. My idea is that Necro has a max of 2 or 3 uses(may reset after getting restoration) and when you use it instead of just getting up into an enemy camping you or a trap you just get teleported back to your spawn. I did think of maybe leaving a faux corpse behind with your guns and you had to go retrieve them but eh, thats too much work. Just make it more dynamic instead of being camped/trapped and people tanking thier mmr super fast by repeatedly dying.(the 2 or 3 uses would depend on game mode, so duos would be 2 uses and trios would be 3)

[+]mukavva -2 points-1 points0 points 1 month ago (0 children)
Why not introduce a flair to make both sides happy, instead of burying solo necro complainers in a mega thread? Mods are practically taking sides with this decision. smh.

[–]bad_squid_drawing -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (1 child)
I'd propose solos only losing MMR for one death per match, and no longer having reduced MMR when solo queueing. 
The lower MMR doesn't make sense anymore when they can get back up. 
I'd also be for putting a time limit on how long they can wait to rez. Then worst case you only have to wait that long. Maybe between 30 seconds and 1 minute.
I think this solves a lot of issues. 
Obviously infernal pact just needs to be changed and is causing the most egregious issues RN though. 
Further potential nerfs are only allowing 1 res per match. Maybe letting it reset if you get a banish
And things like salveskin not working while downed as a solo. 
I don't have too much of a problem with solo necro and haven't run into many issues, though I can tell it's become slightly more common during the event I assume because of infernal. 
The thing I definitely hate is seeing someone who's clearly a 6 star playing way down because they could server wipe and still lose MMR; and they'll just destroy people. Its rare but frequent enough, and super disheartening to play against when it does happen



[–]BlaydedWarrior -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
Been playing hunt for a little while now, i queue as solo, as well as with teams of 2 or 3. Before i give my opinion, i will note i only play squads of 3 as a solo. With that being said, i find solos to be pretty balanced. As a solo, i find i do really well K/D wise, but i find it very difficult to overwhelm 3 players if they play the situation correctly. I would say Necromancer has an effectivity of about 30% of the time, where the other 70% i am trapped, burned or camped, all being relatively fair responses to a player that can get up with no consequences. Even with the MMR drop, the difference between MMRs doesn't effect the fact that they have 3 guns pointed on me, and i have 1. If i am to tactically pick them off 1 by 1, that is a mistake on the defenders end, as if they are to charge me head on and cleanse my location, they will likely make short work of my hunter. I think the minimal buffs given to the perks for solos are very minuscule in the grand scheme of things compared to literally just having more people on your team. With that said, i find being a solo a very fun challenge, and i never feel hard done by just because I don't have a team. Anyone who struggles to fight solos simply is not playing the situation correctly, or has never experienced being a solo and understanding the mechanics behind being just 1 person.
The only thing i will note, is that being a solo is frustrating because of how MMR works as a whole. anyone can kill anyone in hunt, especially with such large trade windows, and with this comes a detriment to my MMR as such. I am forced into MMR3 lobbies as an MMR4, and I can run into an enemy player with a shotgun, shoot them first, and as long as they clicked the trigger within a second of me, they will also down me, which is the difference between an experienced player, and a total noob fresh off the boat. MMR should NOT be based off of the rank that killed you, and although i do not have a suggestion as to what is best, simply K/D would be a good start. 
For those of you who don't want to read this above, Personally i find solos to be somewhat balanced as a person that both plays solo against 3 squads, and being the 3 squad against solos.

[–]Kanton_ -1 points0 points1 point 1 month ago (0 children)
How about a trait called Reaper, that allows you to trap downed hunter’s soul in a lantern. Serpent allows you to do this from further away. 
This way it can be done even in rain or body of water, it forces the solo necro to make a move and not sit for a long stretch of time as once they’re soul has been taken they’ve essentially died for good. 
Souls can be returned if the lantern that holds them breaks, forcing teammates to retrieve the lantern. 
Could also help against constant redskull revives.

[–]Ruxem-Sammy -5 points-4 points-3 points 1 month ago (2 children)
The cope and seethe thread.

[–]alf666 -3 points-2 points-1 points 1 month ago (1 child)
Don't forget "mald".




Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy. © 2023 reddit inc. All rights reserved.
REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc.
π Rendered by PID 44122 on  reddit-service-r2-loggedout-cff59bdc7-smk4c  at 2023-11-20 03:52:55.916293+00:00 running 2542059 country code: US.