The line is thin. Homeworld Remastered is called remastered, but it overhauls the gameplay, upgrades he graphics and UI to the point where it barely controls the same as the original, and adds two factions from the 2nd game into the first. And it's all done in a completely new engine.
Surely that's a remake, no?

That's a remake in my opinion

Whoever is in charge of the awards/categories. The rule could require substantial changes to the game and they can decide whether a remake/remaster qualifies. 
Game award categories aren't super high stakes and it's pretty easy to just make a fair judgment call when considering aspects of the game like the previous Homeworld comment mentioned.

All competitions have rules on what's allowed and not allowed. It's just a matter of picking a set of rules to start with. There will be disagreement but it's not an impossible task at all.

And it's not like there's only one way to do it.
You could have a Remakes/Remasters category, a "Best New Game" category that doesn't allow them, and then a separate "game of the year" category that does. It just depends on how many categories people want, and where they want to draw the lines.

How many stellar remakes/remasters are there a year worth that kind of consideration? Something like RE2 remake should qualify since it’s the best game of that year and it’s not because it’s the same as the old one.

Remake will make improvements on the gameplay and the engine. FF7 is a remake
Remaster is the same game only with upscaled graphics and zero changes to anything else. FF9 is a remaster

FF7 remake is a new game with new story elements though.

Weird how you've been downvoted for being right. The "remake" title is a clever play on words related to the story rather than a remake of the original FF7.

They "remade" it into a 3 part game so they can sell more copies.  SqEnix is genius!


Who is going to be the authority on what is and what isnt a remake?

Me.

I too eledge u/Broly_ as the remake/remaster authority

Well, I don't know what it means to eledge a guy, but you seem pretty confident about the whole thing, so sure why not. I'll eledge him too.

I meant elect lmao
"Elect" in my language is "eleger" so I thought it was "eledge" in English for whatever reason

Make him the eledge lord.

The music industry. Remaster is anything that uses the original as a base and improves it vs redoing the whole thing but making it feel/look like the original. Like digitally de-noising an old track to make it sound better vs getting the original band back together to re-record it with better equipment.
The same logic can be used for games. If they are taking the actual fully made game and going in and improving textures, adding quality of life features etc. then thats a remaster. If they redo the game, like remaking it in a different engine or just starting from scratch then even if they are taking some of the original parts and putting them in that would still be a remake.

I mean, I feel like the names kind of delineate them fine, it's marketing people using them interchangeably that muddies the water and causes issues.
Did you actually make the game again? With changes to improve the experience and bring it in line with modern titles? It's a remake.
Did you take the old game, make it run on modern hardware and give it a fresh lick of paint? It's a remaster.

Put Scott the Woz in charge of it. He's got it all figured out.

The same fart-huffing assholes who make the nominations and present the awards, I guess.

Also at what point does a remake become a reboot?

And I disagree.
They took the original game, on the same engine and updated it. It was not remade from scratch like for example, the Demon's Souls remake on PS5, which is on a completely different engine with entirely new assets, but the same core gameplay and story.

That's not only your opinion, you're factually correct
Remaster is build upon the original game with a few improvements, doesn't matter how big or small they are or how much or little there is
Remake is build from the ground up, usually new engine and assets entirely

A remake is when the game is made new from the ground up in a new engine for example

Does it play and look better than the old one and has a fair price point?
Who the fuck cares?

The old one isn't even available separately anymore (and is also a massive pain to get running on modern systems since the original game is nearly 25 years old and the sequel included is at least 20)

I think a better example is The Last of Us on ps5. Remade from the ground up but is basically the exact same game with minimal gameplay changes

I think those are the games that turn this discussion into a confusing mess.
Metroid Prime Remaster falls into that category as well, IMO.
It's the same game as the original, I think it does use part of the original code, but it was (mostly) made from the ground up. Not to mention it was called a remaster, and not a remake.

It the publisher doesn't understand the difference then that's on them

Well, you could say that Cyberpunk 2.0 update remakes the game, so...

Here's the one grip I have with saying it can't be best story, FF7 Remake is still a remake of that original story but it does shift and change it so if that kind of a remake happens, why shouldn't that be applicable? If a good game being remade ends up adding extra pieces to the story that make it an incredible story, I feel as though that should be rewarded
The line is super thin, which is why I feel like this is such a hard topic to really debate about because I think most people have the same opinion. I think everyone agrees that if all you do is essentially turn the resolution slider up and AI upscale your old assets, you should never be given awards for that kind of content. I think where the conversation gets weirder to me is in places like the RE remakes, FF7 Remake + Rebirth, and even in some ways Dead Space because you are from the core starting from nothing. Your not reusing any OG code or assets, you are starting from scratch with a framework but you are able to build on that as much or as little as you would like and that ends up creating a fundamentally different experience because you have a whole different team building this new game

I agree, with one limitation. Remasters are a pure cash grab, if there's isn't a long time period (Let's say a decade or more) between it and the original release. Basically a new player generation came to the medium since then. A System shock remaster would be okay to be judged for its own, IMO.
Remakes are their own thing. Not all are good (IMO The Mafia remake wasn't as good as the original, for an example where I played both), but they can be judged as a new game.


A System shock remaster would be okay to be judged for its own, IMO.

If you're rebuilding the entire game in a new engine, you've moved out of remaster and into remake territory IMO.

maybe having their own catagory would be more appropriate like best remake/remaster. I bet in a few years there will be enough competition to justify it.

still shouldn't be awarded new awards. ITs not a new story nor gameplay nor much changes other than graphics. Simple as that.
It can have its own genre then: Best remake of the year.

It's a good thing games aren't solely based on their story then isn't it?

same gameplay, same story, same linear progression with just better graphics that they want to charge you 80$ for is something you willingly bend over for, then thats on you.
I prefer a new story and new game all together.

What would you say about the Final Fantasy VII remake? Without taking graphics into account, would you say it's basically the same game?

without taking graphics? No its completely different gameplay, action vs turn based and had changes to storypoints.
Do you consider Last of us original vs last of us ps 4, ps5 versions to be different games? are you ok with paying 80$ every time they release it with better graphics? Are you gonan buy it for ps6 7 8 9 xbox versions pc versions? And do they all deserve awards?
Im not ok with paying 210+$ for Final fantasy 7 remake, rebirth & whatever the third ones gonne be called.

Of course not. I was pointing the difference between a remake and a remaster.
You argued that a remake doesn't have a different story nor gameplay and I was giving an counter example.

A shitload of games don't even have a story in the first place, or have such a generic story that it is irrelevant.  Look at how many games start off with some variation of "This game's antagonist kidnapped someone you care about.  You need to rescue them."


ITs not a new story. Simple as that.

Then they should be disqualified from story awards.  Anything else should be on the table.

If the only thing I cared about in videogames was story, I'd just read books.


If you're rebuilding the entire game in a new engine, you've moved out of remaster and into remake territory IMO.

It depends I guess. I think you are still in the remaster territory, if you keep the games mechanics and plot like the original. Just look at Gearbox's Homeworld, that is considered a Remaster.
EDIT: Since there's no real standard definition across the industry this is basically a matter of opinion.

ReMAKE - make new assets.
ReMASTER - improve assets. 
The meaning is pretty clear.

Remaster: models and environments are remade, while retaining the game's original code.
Remake: models and environments are remade and the game mechanics are modernized.
But again, it depends on how much was done.

You are redefining the words. In this context, make means to create, master means to improve upon. 
It's really that simple.

The problem with your definition for me is that basically everything that is beyond a texture pack is a remake.

Yes. That's how the words have always been understood.

So COD 4 remastered is really a remake, since they made new features for the game.

Did you forget GTA trilogy

It’s still actually a RenderWare game. GSG used some hacky software to make some of the code read by Unreal, which is the main reason why the performance is so shit.

No, but my understanding is that they re-used all the assets with some AI-upscaling. Even with a different engine, I'd still call that a re-master. 
System Shock on the other hand built everything or almost everything from scratch, even though they closely followed the original design. I'd still call it a remake for that reason, but I can understand people saying that a real re-make needs new gameplay elements and level design. In the end you can draw the line where you want, I'm not going to tell you you're wrong, but I might tell you that I don't agree.

The GTA trioligy is made on the xb360/ps3 ports  which are built on the mobile ports that are complete and utter garbage. And the ports are made by the same studio who did the remaster, just under a different name

GTA Trilogy is a remake though. They did not reuse the assets from the old games.

I find that pretty hard to believe that they really remade three games worth of assets from scratch and didn't just take the originals and modify them, especially given the end results.

How would you modify the original assets to look like the new ones?? Explain.

Um, open file, edit file, import into new game. The same way artists did when they were making the original assets. You can also use AI tools to automatically add more pixels and polygons to existing assets - various mods for old games exist which do exactly that, though some human intervention helps to ensure that the higher res/poly images actually look better and reflect the original source material. 
https://www.pcgamesn.com/max-payne/ai-enhanced-hd-remaster

This is not how it works at all. Stop it.

Gta the definitive edition is a Frankensteins monster where they took the old games, removed everything related to renderware (probably because ea isnt honoring licenses for an engine they killed), and then made a compatibility layer so that the unreal engine can make sense of what the old games are spitting out
The games should theoretically be practically identical to theold versions when it comes to ai and map data

The logic is the same, but all the assets are remade.

The Defective edition is a port of a mobile port with Unreal 4 renderer glued onto it.
These games were shipped with the source code, and share many of the same bugs and problems as the original games from 20 years back. This accuracy would be commendable if GSG rebuilt these games on a different engine.
Some of the assets were remade, others were infamously treated to AI upscale, and there were backported assets from RAGE-era games.
There were links to sources but automod didn't like them  ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

The logic is the same, but all the visuals are remade.

Yeah, on a very superficial level - old assets, new renderer - and the overwhelming majority of assets in the defective edition are bit for bit the same as the mobile port or the original release, down to backface culling errors.

Bugs are irrelevant. The game visuals have been remade. End of story.


Remasters are a pure cash grab, if there's isn't a long time period (Let's say a decade or more)

By that time, the only option should be a remake anyway. If you're just upping textures in a 10+yo engine you lazy af and don't deserve anything. Heavily side eyes Rockstar

I agree with you. Like if Nintendo (finally...) decided to bring Ocarina of Time to consoles as something other than a ROM and somehow no new games could compete with something from the 90s, then great, let 'em have the win.


Like if Nintendo (finally...) decided to bring Ocarina of Time to consoles as something other than a ROM

Yes, another good example. IMO, games could even cut features that weren't popular. 
I don't need a working PvP multiplayer for the remaster of a classic game where the Multiplayer sucked, for example. 9 out of 10 times the Singleplayer experience is all that people are looking for, IMO.

It depends on whether we're talking about Conkers bad fur day or not.

context sensitive


Conkers bad fur day

I don't know that one lol, I mostly played PC only besides some SNES in my early childhood.

I think it was the last game to come out on N64 and by Rare. Might be able to find it on Xbox somewhere now. Great game, really a lot of toilet humor, but it slapped when I was a kid. The multiplayer had a ton of different game modes to mess with and had AI you could use to fill out the game. Teddy bears vs squirrels with bazookas and chainsaws, it was a great time.

The remake was Conker Live and Reloaded on the xbox. I remember playing the hell out of the online multiplayer

It’s on game pass along with banjo kazooie

Dead Space Remake leaned into this and it was great. Pretty much everyone agrees that the Asteroid Defense System cannons section was the worst part of the original game. It's a frustrating section where you have to blow up asteroids with a painfully slow fixed turret that's easy to fail and plays nothing like the rest of the game. So the remake removed that section, mechanically, and redid the ADS cannons with completely new mechanics. They also swapped how zero-g locomotion worked to the much preferred implementation in Dead Space 2 and 3 (remaking the levels that used the mechanic so they made sense with the change).
The coolest part was that the remake embraced the power difference between 7th and 9th gen consoles. The lighting system is much more robust, so the spaceship full of monsters is much darker and more reliant on your flashlight (they even added a section where you need to power an elevator by diverting power from either the lights or life support, making you rely on either your suit's tiny flashlight or tiny air canister), and what used to be a series of discreet levels is now seamless and with more backtracking to take advantage of it.


Yes, another good example. IMO, games could even cut features that weren't popular. 

Or ones that were and repackage them as DLC! Lookin at you RE4 Seperate Ways!

Meh, the game sucks ass by modern standards and no one would dare to say that because it's such a loved classic. The same goes for basically any classic that's loved by a whole generation.
There are some games I play every couple of years for the nostalgia, but even if I'd love a high quality remake, it doesn't mean they should be competing against new games. I don't care about AAA games losing to remakes, but it's already rough enough for indie devs.

I would throw so much money at them if I got to play all the old Pokemon games on my switch. Just port them like with the 3DS. I can't imagine that this would take much work. And I can't be the only one.

Sell your switch, buy a steam deck, emulate all nintendo games. Fuck nintendo

This except rog ally

But then I would have to use the rog ally

What kills me is that they already made the RBY world in 3D...and then wasted it on Let's Go Pikachu/Eevee. Like, the game is already there. Just release it with the original gameplay intact and I will pay $60 for it.
Or alternatively make Gold/Silver because you already have Kanto and now just need to build Johto in 3D.

You mean you don’t want a Pokémon game that is completely unplayable with a normal controller?

I'm okay with Remasters as long as no current gen console can play it. PS4 Last of Us because it's a different console and Last of Us 2 is out? Sure, bit early but why not. PS5 Last of Us? Gtfoh.

I really enjoyed playing Diablo remastered and its a trip to flip it back to the original graphics.


a long time period (Let's say a decade or more)

A decade is just over the length of a single average console generation.  That's the shit publishers already do.  Just porting the same game from console to console.
A more reasonable time period is 20-30 years.
Even then the time would be spent better building an ecosystem of widely-accessible ROMs of said games for people to buy-to-own.

What remasters were actually good? The recent RE4?

Yes, that was apparently very good.

No

agreed, FFVII:R =/= WC3 remastered, for example

Yep. FF7R is fantastic and truly a remake. It deserved the attention it was getting for possible GOTY.

Yeah. They could take the shine away from the likes of the new Nintendo Switch game, Red Dead Redemption

I think the RE4 remake is a curious one. The remake is phenomenal and could be considered game of the year. But the raw material they had to work with feels a bit like cheating. 
I think GOTY should really be reserved for New IP/Titles.
Every 7/8 years top 10 games could get remade and re-released and then we are in a scenario where game of the year awards are meaningless and void of any excitement.

I think it depends honestly. Some remasters I would say deserve to be eligable. My main example would be the Nier: Replicant remaster/upgrade. Almost the same game but with the other protagonist we never got in the west, better combat and movement to better match with Nier: Automata, reorchestrated music, full voice acting in every scene and with every character, new story sections, and a whole new ending adapted from side material which furthers the game's story/lore substantially. The release still uses the PS3 original as a base but really overhauls and adds quite a bit. It's in a weird area, kind of between a remaster and a remake but I think it totally deserved to be a part of the Game Awards with all of the effort put into bringing it into the modern age.

Waiting for the MGS remaster or whatever it’s labeled as this time to decide personally.
I’m not bothered by the resident evil remastered games and such personally. Just could do without another Skyrim as I already have it for Xbox 360, PC, switch and PS4VR though I’ve upgraded my consoles since then and don’t even have those old consoles plugged in nor do I have Skyrim downloaded on my current laptop, desktop or steam deck..it’s really just a self insult..

Why

Because remakes are, as the name implies, remade from the ground up, thus being completely new games, wheras remasters use the old models/textures/sound files (although some remakes reuse audio aswell) and just upscale it and update the controls and menu's

Dark Souls remake did not overhaul anything. It’s a 1:1 recreation of the old game with modern graphics. GTA Trilogy is also a remake with 1:1 recreation on a modern engine. How is that different from a remaster?

Also I have no idea wtf you're talking about, both things you mentioned literally call themselves remasters, not remakes.

I meant demon souls. Also it doesn’t matter what they call themselves. Crash and Spyro remakes are remakes even though they call themselves remasters.

Then those aren't remakes, no matter what anyone calls them. A remake is made from the ground up, all new assets, all new coding, no exceptions. (It's RE-MADE). If the majority of assets are retained and reused, then nothing is being "remade", it's just remastering of existing assets.

Demon Souls is a remake from the grounds up. Yes it’s a 1:1 recreation of the old game and doesn’t overhaul anything.

What about something like re2 remake? It was pretty faithful to the original, yet it was such an overhaul to gameplay that the experience itself is entirely different. It was one of the best games released that year.
And for a remake to be considered the best game of a particular year, it would have to stand out similar to that. The critics who vote in these awards shows aren't idiots, they're aware of which games are remakes, and I'm sure they take it into consideration.


Remakes are fine. They overhaul the game a lot.

Nah, fixing some dents and slapping a new coat of paint on it is not enough to justify it being compared to other original games.
Make a separate category for it.

Then how do you classify FFVII:Remake? Because that was far more than just fixing some dents and putting a new coat of paint on. That was a full rebuild from the ground up and a different experience altogether.

The same way the people who made the game classify it: a remake

Yeah, no.
You're taking an incredibly short-sighted view on it and it's clearly not worth discussing.
Everyone's entitled to their opinion, no matter how wrong it is.

Who even cares about game awards

We should actively ignore them. Hollywood executives created their award culture so that most film makers would make the movies they wanted and be happy for it. Fast forward to now and that crap was copied to video games. These awards bring nothing to the table.
Edit: from here:

"I found that the best way to handle them was to hang medals all over them,” said Mayer, according to Scott Eyman's biography, "Lion of Hollywood."
"If I got them cups and awards they’d kill themselves to produce what I wanted," Mayer added. "That’s why the Academy Award was created."


if you wanna know how accurate the academy awards are, the dark night didn't even get nominated for best picture in 2008, and wall-e didn't win shit.


the dark night didn't even get nominated for best picture in 2008

That's because it was released after the 2008 Academy Awards. It got nominated for 8 and won 2 of those in 2009.

Not only that, Wall E literally won best animated feature that year 
That guy chose every wrong example lmao

it beat bold and kung fu panda, real big win there.

This is comical. So confidentially incorrect

Are you stupid or something? The Dark Knight was nominated for best picture and wall e won for best animated feature

the dark kinght did not get nominated for best picture, and wall-e beat bolt and kung fu panda.

Yet, the first time someone has a grassroots campaign and not funded by the studios, you have an intense backlash.

I'm not, I'm saying that movies and talents who win are pushed by million dollar campaigns by the studios. You may find exceptions but those are not the rule.
You don't see much experimentalism and politically they tend to cater to the white man, even if can diverge in the spectrum.
Many directors have to do the awards run several times times before they do the movies they want.

Now it makes sense as to why every franchise is trying to have its “endgame” moment

Funny, because I backed myself with a citation, you don't even present a counter-point. Who has nothing between us?

I vote on steam. That’s about the extent that I care

why?
does it make the game better?

You sound like a person who has a lot of empathy and likes sharing happiness and fun with others :)

seeking external validation for a game you already like is dumb. imagine thinking an award means you have good taste, hilarious.
my sports team won, I'm such a good team member! lol. (a lot of people do this and it's equally cringe.)

You nailed it lmao.
I'm the same way. Rationally, we both know the Game Awards are corporate slop and don't mean anything.
But we aren't purely rational. It's still a fun-enough time and a solid-enough way to kill an evening in December, and I'm usually just there for reveals anyway. But if a game I like wins something, you bet I'm gonna feel a little happy.
(Also Hades is amazing. I still have a few story bits left I assume and hidden aspects to track down but I binged a lot of that game over past 3 years.)

Hey man I want you to know that I just picked up Hades in the last two weeks and can’t put it down when it comes to game time. Extremely fun and even if I’m not great at the combat (I am fucking awful with the fists especially) I’m almost done maxing everyone’s hearts and have massively enjoyed the story. About to finish my 18th complete run and I’m still under 100 attempts! 
I don’t know if I’ll hang around to completely 100% every weapon/push high heat once the story is done but I am so glad I finally got around to playing that game.
So those 6 people might be missing out but know that this internet stranger shares the love.

I bet they call football "hand egg"

This comment is much more cringe.

An influx of users and cash often does, yes.

If a game gets awards, then investors feel more confident in their choice to back that project. That in turn means said game dev team has more pull to either make a sequel, or other game they want to pitch.
Its all about impressing the investors.

I think people bounce between caring too much and caring too little. 
Too much because it doesn’t actually matter much what others say is good. If you care that much, you’re probably young or just way too deep into it. 
But caring too little takes away the fun of it all because what those awards are actually for us to spread the word about well made pieces of media/art to people who otherwise wouldn’t care. I know Baldur’s Gate is a popular franchise but there’s gonna be so many people that have never played that kinda game who experience Baldur’s Gate 3 solely because it’s so highly rated. It spreads the word. And when the end of the year lists come out and amid RE4make and Zelda and Baldur’s Gate being nominated, sneaking in indie stuff like Dave the Diver will expose lots of people to stuff they probably absolutely never heard about. 
Caring too much about this stuff is a sickness but being so detached from awards stuff for games or movies makes you forget that it’s actually good for the medium to celebrate the art form. Especially when you know most people only really play Madden and FIFA and CoD and Fortnite and those people might expand their palate because of awards shows.

It be corporate trash sorry

Good job proving his point.

You eat up corporate trash =(


I know Baldur’s Gate is a popular franchise but there’s gonna be so many people that have never played that kinda game who experience Baldur’s Gate 3 solely because it’s so highly rated. 

I really doubt this is true. No one who ignores the user reviews, ignores the memes, ignores the videos, ignores the streams, and ignores all the fan circle jerks is going to watch award shows to figure out what game they should buy. 
And no one is going to buy a game they had otherwise shunned because it is Gamespotstop's game of the year.

I know I've bought games because they were nominated for GOTY awards, and therefore had discussions about why they should've won it

it's not for us to spread the word at all? if you think gamers have any actual say in awards shows you're a moron.

https://assetsio.reedpopcdn.com/1351081625.6.jpg

Way to contribute to the thread.

It’s an infomercial; they literally combine awards and cut off speeches to make time for more ads
Developers I know are starting to get kinda pissed off at being Geoff Kighley’s advertising props

Depends. If a remake brings a lot of changes and improvements, like RE2RE being made on a different modern engine, having significantly different gameplay, new visuals and so on, being decades apart from original, it should deserve a spot in mainline game awards. Else, a separate category for sure.

Yea, but how do you define the boundary? The game may bring new mechanics, but theres more than that to a game. Story, art style, music - all things that affect the experience of the game, but generally stay the same in a remake. It should still be a separate category imo.

In staying with OP's example, RE2R

The story is actually slightly different; different things happen or they happen out of sequence with RE2OG
The art style was completely new due to the RE Engine
The music was completely rewritten and redone too

As United States Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart said during Jacobellis vs The State of Ohio 1964: "although I cannot directly define it, I know it when I see it, and this is it".

This also presumes that we're taking the care to make a distinction of those categories versus "the awards".
Dead Space Remake has a completely redone sound design from the original game, but does it being a remake disqualify it from being nominated and/or winning Best Sound Design? I would argue no, I think it should be allowed to compete.
In contrast, The Last of Us Remake's voice and audio work are an asset turn from the og version, so I would then argue that it shouldn't be nominated/or win Best Sound Design, because it legitimately did not update anything.


As United States Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart said during Jacobellis vs The State of Ohio 1964: "although I cannot directly define it, I know it when I see it, and this is it".

This is the quote I was waiting to see. Some remasters/remakes deserve a shot at an award but you can't just go by the name because some put in a bunch of work and some just upscale the graphics.


Story, art style, music 

Those tend to be similar between sequels as well. People kept calling TotK a 70 dollar DLC, but that's the feeling I got from GoW Ragnarok (even though it's a lot bigger than the original, improves on aspects of the original and was worth the price). The story is the only thing that's completely different, for very obvious reasons. I feel like a line can be drawn somewhere.

Never played Ragnarok, but TOTK did feel like a DLC to me.
It is better than BOTW. But it lacked that "wow" factor that BOTW had. I actually like BOTW more because it was fresh and new.. TOTK didn't feel like that. The sky islands were barebones. The depths is just filled with emptiness and no multiple biomes. The story is pathetic and was written by a 5 year old. And the dungeons... those were just insulting. How the hell does wind waker, a game that looks even more kid friendy, have harder dungeons? Also there were barely any new enemies.
Can't complain about the gameplay though, that was fun.

Someone once called the new god of war a really well directed HBO series ......
That that really stuck with me cause they're not wrong 
Both new games are great but holy cow they are like tv episodes 
Hell rangnaroks gate opening scene is literally made to be a cliffhanger for a two parter


Both new games are great but holy cow they are like tv episodes 

As in a lot of cutscenes?

The way they're directed. 
Beautifully may I add, but it just screams like they went with a film esque framing rather than game based frames.

They're extremely well done and the plot, pacing, and story telling is performed/played out very well. Like much of it is just walking up and the conversations occur by virtue of just being in the vicinity. A great example is if you're just cruising around in the boat in the older game there's an NPC on your hip telling you stories on and off again. I'd find myself just paddling around more to hear them all. Lots of small QoL stuff that really made the game.

Sure if you pretend it’s all cut scenes and not packed with great combat, puzzles, and exploration

I felt the same way about ff16. Would be better if they just made a tv series.

How do you define best art? it is all subjective. if it feels like a new game it is a new game even if it is a remake. you can't put objective rules on something that you only judge subjectively.

It's just that no matter how much you do to update a game, so much work has already been done by the time you start. 
There's a galaxy of difference between starting from nothing, and starting with a feature-complete, mechanically-rich video game from the 90's that sold well at the time, and the fanbase still exists, and that fanbase is more mature with more money now.
Did those systems have to get reverse engineered and rebuilt? Yup. But I don't care, that's actually the easy part of building a game.
Investing in an idea that you have no guarantee  of it selling once everything is finished and ready? That's hard. Getting 200 developers together, and paying them to invest their time and brain power into some new game no one has ever heard of? That's a risk. That's something I can respect. 
RE2RE is something I wanted, and I like it, but there was nothing risky about it in the slightest. And Capcom doesn't deserve an award for making the easiest move possible. Reskinning the same house in new trim RARELY deserves a reward. I'd rather award the actual designer who came up with RE2.

I’m interested in how this would then fit with sequels. They meet all the criteria you mention, including often having an existing loyal fanbase

Sequels, while obviously still carrying a lot over from the first entry, still have to build the advancement of the narrative, design new enemies and often times build new or greatly alter existing worlds.
I see your point but I'd consider a sequel still more "original" than taking an existing game and rebuilding it with maybe some alterations to the story and some more detail.

that's very fair

Its the same game with better graphics. There is no reason a game should be able to win a category in lets say 2005 and then win again in 2025 just because the graphics were updated and the game re-released.

Example of Re2Re is not just "better" graphics though, as I mentioned earlier.

What's a diffrence between a remake and remaster

Remake is built up from the ground again. Complete overhaul of things, the game looks and feels the same, but it's a grand improvement in all sorts of manner from the original.
Example: Final Fantasy VII remake. Wind Waker HD
A remaster is a graphical upgrade only and perhaps a bit of an upgrade in menu's etc. But the game itself can be easily compared to the original.
Example: Need for Speed Hot Pursuit. Baten Kaitos Remastered.

Windwaker HD is a remaster. It received a big overhaul but it's still mostly the same thing with various enhancements.

Wind Waker HD is a remaster.

Maybe he meant Links Awaking?

I suppose mafia 1 was a remake then

yeah and mafia 2 a remaster

Wind Waker HD is a remaster.

Final fantasy VII remake does not qualify for your description. Only the main story line + characters are the same, all other aspects are completely different

Major spoilers for FF7R it's not even a remake, by the time you get to the end you realize it's a sequel. Calling it a remake was a brilliant bit of misdirection so you don't expect it.

I wouldn't call it a sequel either. It's a reimagining more than anything. 
But it's a fantastic poster child for why this entire debate is dumb as fuck.

Wait so how does that work , spoil me please 
How do you realize at the end that it was a sequel? While the entire game was still the reginal story

The current running theory is that the Sephiroth in Remake is post-Advent Children Sephiroth. You know, timey-wimey shenanigans. Not confirmed though.
Blatantly shown in the game though, spoiler alert: Whispers are not in the original game. They are in Remake as beings who's purpose is to make sure events go according to fate. At the end, against the semi-final boss the Whisper Harbinger, is a brief flash forward to an Advent Children scene (and a glimpse of Aerith's death scene), with Red XIII stating it was "a glimpse of tomorrow if we fail here today". The party does not fail, defeating the Whispers and defying fate, implying possible timeline changes in the next games.
Considering the Advent Children references in the "original" FF7, safe to say the game is a pseudo-sequel in some regard. Along with Sephiroth, there seems to be hints that Aerith may know a bit more than she leads on as well. Can't wait to see how it plays out.

Woah that very good indeed thanks for the answer 
So it would be considered like a retelling of the original story but with time shenanigans , pretty cools indeed

I also forgot one more key evidence to alternate timelines. There are a few cutscenes in Remake showing Zack, the protagonist of Crisis Core and Cloud's friend. At the end of Crisis Core, Zack dies. In Remake, at the end, it shows a scene of Zack triumphant in the battle that originally killed him, and carrying an injured Cloud back to Midgar, as opposed to dying and bequeathing the Buster Sword to Cloud.
Rather than that just being a change in the story for remake purposes, it is very clearly a different timeline entirely we are getting glimpses at.

I find your examples interesting. WWHD, with the exception of the fast sail and the truncated Triforce quest, is basically just (as the title implies) Wind Waker in HD. Which is fine, but I wouldn't consider it a full rebuild as it still plays the same.
On the other hand, FFVII remake isn't even really that; it's an entirely new game, just with the same plot as FFVII. Like, you could play both and have a totally different experience because they are not really the same game.

Spoiler for FFVII Remake: It and the other parts of the "remake" trilogy are going to be increasingly divorced from the plot of the original game, because they're not remakes, they're sequels.


but I wouldn't consider it a full rebuild as it still plays the same.

I’d argue it’s more of a technical distinction. Did they rebuild the game from the ground up in a new engine? If yes, Id consider it a remake, even if gameplay/story/etc. changes are minimal.

New engine or not is, for me, completely irrelevant to the remake/remaster debate. Because it's something people might not even know/notice. If you try, you can make literally exactly the same game, looking the same, feeling the same, with different engines. You could even make it worse than with the old engine. 
And at the same time, a game made with a brand new engine 10 years ago, can be remade now, with the same engine but way better looking, better assets, textures, refined controls and gameplay, new features, and call it a remake.

Resident evil 4 is the greatest female ever?

Remakes fully remake  the entire game from scratch  ( eg . final fantasy 7 , pokemon Oras , demon souls remake )  , remasteres are just enhancements of the original , basically a glorified update ( eg , dark souls remastered,  spiderman remastered)

A remake is remade. A remaster is remastered. Like asking what's the difference between from scratch and from a mix. They're established terms with meanings. The answer is in the name. Remaster is a 60 year old term at this point, minimum.

Remake: See RE2 remake, and ff7 remake.
Remaster:  Last of us ps4/ps5.

Lol, The Last of Us has BOTH a remake and a remaster. 
The PS4 version that launches shortly after the console was released was a remaster. It was an easy way to bring the beloved game into the new generation of PS4 console, and was released a year after the original. 
The PS5 Version is a remake. The entire game was created from the ground up.

Remaster is based on the original code, remake isn't. That's the only relevant distinction and all the other stuff people go on about like "remaster exclusively improves the graphics while remakes make other changes to story and gameplay" are total and utter nonsense. 
Demon's Souls on PS5, for example, is a remake despite being only a graphical improvement, while Skyward Sword HD on Switch is a remaster despite containing quite a lot of changes other than the graphics. Why? The latter is based on the original source code, the former isn't (instead being a ground-up reconstruction of the original).

I kinda disagree.  If the best games are remakes and remasters of 10+ year old games then that should be a wake-up call to the studios to stop releasing incomplete, buggy, micro-transaction laden trash.

Or a call to just keep doing remasters/remakes instead of taking risks on new games or IP which to me is incredibly boring and kinda lazy.

That isn't what happens though, execs see record sales for remakes/remasters over new IP, that tells them to not innovate, not try anything new, but rather rely on the name and nostalgia of existing titles that you can slap a fresh coat of paint on to release and print money.

Who cares about games awards contest ?

the actual game developers themselves, it can boost their cv if they are applying to other studios as they could say the game they worked on won goty or some other award

The entire industry. A GOTY title much like an Oscar or whatever award win most definitely will boost sales and the bottom line is always the primary driver of pretty much everything once you cut through all the other bullshit. 
If we regular plebs didn't pay heed to these things they'd lose that but between people's love to argue about they think is "best" and the laziness of just picking the award winner when you don't know what to go for I don't see it ever really changing.

That's definitely fair. I never understood though why gamers care, why movie, music, TV show fans care about awards. A game, movie, song, TV show getting an award or not getting an award has no bearing on me enjoying or disliking something.

It affects how publishers and investors see studios, which affects what games get made. It doesn't affect your enjoyment of existing games, but like it or not it affects the gaming landscape going forward.

That's ok, but many people like celebrating things and give awards to them, which is okay too.

Idk, I guess it's your passion for that sort of media. If you're really passionate about something, you'd want it to win. For me atleast, if they are a contender for an award I would hope they win, but I don't really care about the award or I wouldn't pay close attention to it at all. If they win, it's cool ig

oh boy, industry people jerking themselves off!

Lol

I'm happy for the publicity it gives games that were well made. But overall it's just an award from an outlet. It's not some undeniable proof of supreme work. And frankly for some of us we're tuning into those shows for the new content because some shows have new stuff announced during their awarding. 
For me personally I cannot ever take that end of year award show all that seriously. That same outlet put PUBG on the 2017 GOTY ballot when at the time it was as technically sound as a vanilla Bethesda RPG, and it got in over games like Resident Evil 7, Nier Automata and Hellblade. It's almost funny.
Oh and the year where Last of Us 2 got like every other award. I'll tinfoil the hell out of Sony deciding "Alright TLOU2 fandom is in civil war mode, shell out big bucks to awards show for that good PR to help" over that one.

I was pretty happy for "it takes two" 2 years ago.

It's honestly such a good game. I was also happy it got the win, it was very deserved/fair.
Here's hoping Hazelight puts out something similiar to It Takes Two/A Way Out sometime soon. I really enjoyed both experiences.

Everyone in the industry?

Why should you care as a consumer?

Consumers aren't in the industry?? Who cares

If the remake is good enough to compete with modern titles then it's earned the award.

the problem is that old games that get rereleased with updated graphics then become contender. the core gameplay wouldnt need to be changed and the reason it holds up is because its a good game with a good gameplay loop. it would land into situations where the original already had its time in the sun, but here it is, the same game in contention for first place as early as half a decade after release.

So if it was good 5 years ago why can’t it be good now? If modern games can’t beat 5 yr old games then do the modern games really deserve to win?

the problem isnt the lazy ones winning, indeed only fabulous remasters have won any game awards worth noting. the problem the lazy ones taking spots that new works could have benifited from.
even if the new work cant beat the 5 year old one, that doesnt matter. a game from 2015 shouldnt be able to time travel eight years forward after its release and able to earn goty 2023 just because the devs got told to put a fresh coat of paint on their engine by their publishers.

Then why bother giving awards per year of contenders?  Why wouldn't we then just reenter every game in existence from previous years in the running?
Why not just have massively popular titles from a decade or two ago have consecutive Game Of The Year awards for the last 15+ years?
The whole point is they're awards and accolades from the current batch of released media, I don't think it would be an even playing field to pluck an insanely popular title from our childhood's that already has an established, quality gameplay experience, update the graphics, add a few mechanics, and re-record the music, and have it be considered a new creation, when it's simply a rehashing of the old one.

I assume your talking about metroid prime remastered? When I saw the lost of games that one looked like filler. So did the Mario game. They are good games, but everyone can see they are not revolutionary like bg3 or TOTK this year.

Probably Dead Space or Resident Evil. Isn't Metroid Prime a complete remake of a game that came out over twenty years ago? There are young adults playing that game that weren't even concieved when the OG came out.

As much of a Metroid fan as I am--and as good as MPR was--Metroid Prime Remastered was a fresh coat of paint and an option for modernized controls.  Otherwise, it was the same (extremely good) game that it originally was.


the problem is that old games that get rereleased with updated graphics then become contender.

So?

Skyrim won game of the year 2011.  How many years of re-releases should it also get game of the year?  It's great that it got updated and put on other systems, and it's in the contention for best game ever.  So also game of the year special edition 2016 and anniversary edition 2021?  How many "game of the year" should a the best game have?

It's a never ending cycle of IP that never enters public domain because you end up with resident evil 4: remake 49 in the year 2067

the "so" is that nothing changed from one game to the other, its the same game with a fresh coat of paint.

If the game is good enough to beat the bad games of this decade, then so be it.

sentiments like this is why a third of all games released nowadays are bloody remasters...
if a game is good enough to beat the bad games of this decade, then go play the original and stop rewarding game publishers for being lazy to actually motivate them to go make something awesome for once instead sitting on their asses churning out half baked cash grab games weve been getting for the last five goddamn years.

We get a lot of bloody remasters because they represent an untapped market. 
Lots of great games were released as a console exclusive which limited their audience, or the marketing was terrible, or they could have been great except for a some flaws that get fixed in the remake/remaster, and the passage of time means that their target demographic is fresh to the IP.
That's all separate from the nostalgia-buys which are a nice boost too. Parents are more likely to want to share their own memories of the IP with their kids than some random thing on the shelf.

You have a weird axe to grind with remasters and I’m not sure I understand it.

I know I do because it's just boring and uninspired.

zoomers vs boomers. Zoomers vs Boomers. ZOOMERS vs BOOMERS. ZOOMERS vs BOOMERS! ZOOMERS vs BOOMERS!! ZOOMERS vs BOOMERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

So why stop there? Why not did the rdr2 port not get game of the year, or gtav, or when gtav on ps5.

Because those suck. I dont see your point

I feel like you just say things to be controversial lol

Because it's a yearly title rather than a running list.  A game last year that was better than every game this year shouldn't be considered because it's this year.  Otherwise it's Zelda Oceina of Time every time Nintendo creates a new system and has a new emulator.  If people wanted the best old game, then there's plenty of places to get that.

So with that logic, most sequels should also be disqualified because they have the same gameplay loop

the difference is that sequals have a responsibility to try to iterate and improve on the original (as do the remakes) if they do that, and do that well enough, then sure, nominate them for goty.
but any sequal that is just bog standard call of duty style factory produced crap where the gameplay is fundementally identical to its predicessor of four years usually doesnt even get on the contender list for goty, nevermind actually win it. its at worse a non issue.
this isnt the case for remasters though, they dont have to iterate or improve at all to be in contention, past the expected graphical update. its a cheat code for winning game awards. not only is the gameplay fundimentally the same, the entire game is fundimentally the same.

I get what you mean but new games that come out for the first time have to compete on several fronts ofc, not just technicality and how good it looks but how much do the ideas presented resonate with the people buying the game, that sort of thing. Newly released modern games do have to be able to draw in audiences for the first time to be successful.
But nobody is remaking a game that wasn't popular and nobody liked, the games being remade are ones that a lot of people already love and are excited by, that's a whole aspect that remakes don't have to factor in at all. Remakes are made with a population of fans that already exist and that the company has determined would be willing to purchase their remake. Newly released modern games don't have that at all. It's like, the first place prize podium for remakes is already half built but new games have to build it from scratch.

Then do you judge Skyrim in every year that it was released?

Skyrim has never had a remake

I think it's time to learn the difference between remakes remasters and ports

"Good enough to compete with" or "Viewed through the lens of nostalgia"

Exactly. N64 games are all hot garbage by modern standards. But I guarantee that Ocarina of Time and Goldeneye remakes would win awards if they were shit just because of the nostalgia.
Nah, fuck this shit, the industry already isn't innovative enough.

Battlebit remastered?

Isn't it called remastered just as a joke because it got a lot of updates before it even came out of beta ?

The original idea was more Mil-Sim and they found that it didn't really have an audience for it. And that most people that had been backing it found it too slow and clunky. So they went back to the drawing board and made it more Battlefield arcade-like style and redid a bunch of things.

FF7 remake : yes
FF7 Crisis core remaster : no

FF7 Remake should be nominated for awards because it’s overrated as fuck. Not because it’s a remake

Nah tbh I think it should be nominated for awards because they did more work on the game design than you've done on anything in your entire life

Remasters (e.g. Final Fantasy on Steam, Tales of Symphonia remastered). Yeah those are just touched up ports. Still the same game, just prettier.
Remake? Depends, is it all the same code but all fresh assets? (Metroid Prime) or is the whole game built again from the ground up? (Links Awakening). Some remasters are more like remakes and vice versa. Sure, the game is the same but all the assests are remade and things like the controls upgraded for the new system. I guess I still wouldn't count them for awards unless it's really been overhauled and it's not just a Same Game HD.
Re-imagining (e.g. FF7 Remake, RE2 Remake). Totally fair. Despite the name, these barely qualify as remakes. It's basically a different game. Just because the premise is the same doesn't mean anything, people put a lot of work into making it new. If it doesn't even play like the old one especially so.

Is the irony intentional?
This is a remake of a meme

Glad I'm not the only one to notice that Lisa's face is just a bit... off?

Yap. Remastered template for criticizing remasters and remakes.

*Remake
You never had the original masters.

Well not true. Resident Evil is perfect remake and worth new reviews and awards

I thought everyone knew that pretty much all awards/contests in entertainment - games/movies/music/etc - are pay-to-win. Why do you give them even a moment? It's all marketing and advertising BS.

Remasters yes, remakes no

I don't care about game awards in the slightest, but I am always a bit annoyed if a remaster or something like that is being counted like a game for that particular system.
For example, early on in the 3DS lifecycle, and probably a long time afterwards, Ocarina of Time was hailed as the Nr. 1 best 3DS game.
It's like... what do you mean best "3DS" game? I was playing that game more than 10 years ago already. If that's the best 3DS game then that's a very sad statement about the 3DS.

Yes except for FF7 which is wildly different enough.

Nah you wrong for this
Resident Evil 4 remake
Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire
FF7
Shadow of the Colossus 
Oblivion remake!?
Lollipop chainsaw remake!?!?!?
I get hating lazy remasters, but some remakes are really special

A remake and a remaster are different in my eyes

They are! 
A remaster is usually just a graphical upgrade (sometimes minor QoL and UI updates) while a remake is built new from the ground up.

Nostalgia should not be a factor for game of the year.

Nolstogia? I’ve never played the original of any of those games.
For me at least, i was excited to play these games that I’ve heard so much about and be able to discuss it with those who HAVE played the original

So just play the originals…

They already exist, instead of waiting for remakes and remasters, if you've heard so much about how good the original is, go play the original before the re-released ones, many times (not always ofc) the originals will have more mechanics and depth than the ones yoinked from the past to turn a quick buck.

Ok so you may not have, but the game awards is highly fan involved and lots of those fans will simply vote based on nostalgia.

In film and television they do “best original screenplay”
Why not the gaming industry? 
You shouldn’t DISQUALIFY a good film/game from “best” of the year. Just have a separate award for “best original”.

This makes the most sense to me unless it becomes a problem that remakes/remasters consistently dominate year after year after year in which case I think the awards people would be worried about their awards becoming devalued. As long as it remains a mix then a best original vs overall best should be good.

Makes sense to me!

Alternate take; if a remaster of a 10-20 year old game is legitimately better than your modern game, you've failed as a game developer.

Well, there's too many dimensions to quantify "better".
I mean, I guess a game could be "worse" if it's a glitchy hot mess, but if it's not a glitchy hot mess and its execution is pristine, then "better" is subjective.
Maybe I don't like fantasy magical wizard warlock ogre dwarf medieval games, but instead like sci-fi futuristic lazers phasers and ion ray cannons with time travel and antigravity flying cars. 
Does that mean fantasy games are worse?
Maybe I like low-poly lo-fi pixellated textures with vertex lighting, while other games have physically-based materials, realtime global illumination, and optically accurate depth-of-field and realistic post-processing effects.
Does that mean low-fi games are better?
After a point, the only thing that matters is whether or not your art form is a sustainable business model to survive on. There is no "better", there's just "success".

I disagree with remakes but remasters yes

Re2re et Re4re are goty worthy

Re4 Remake is my GOTY ❤️

Hard agree.
Remakes and Remasters are fun some of the time, but I would rather have new, 7/10 IPs taking some risks than endless reboots and remasters.
This is why systems like the PS2 with tons and tons of obscure action games have the best hidden gems. So many games that were taking a lot of risk to the formula.
Now every single game has to check all these AAA boxes and it's so fucking tiresome.

For the same reason The Oscars are given to movies based on the studio that made them, it's all promotional stunts.
Same reason why the most "voted" streamer is not the ones with better content but the one selling more gamer chalk drinks.

Conversely, who gives a fuck about game awards?

Possibly unpopular opinion: Let them in.
Remakes/remasters already carry the stigma of "current gen lacks originality, so they have to bring the classics back".
So the winner is this 25 year old game that that was ported to modern consoles and upscaled? Yeah I want the game industry to get the message loud and clear. Either do better or accept the whole thing is a farce.
That said I agree there should be rules on "best story/character", like Team Four Star often repeats, "we have over 20 years of hindsight in our favor", so no I won't accept a retelling of Cloud's character as "original" even if they are bold enough to have the remake end with Cloud bridal carrying Tifa around, they're just turning 5/7 of fanfics canon.

From my perspective, unless you're creating a substantially different game in both story and presentation, all remakes/remasters should be disqualified or have a separate "Best Remake/Remaster" category.

Remakes are often times new games with the same plot/basis. They are deserving of recognition.
Remasters are not (at least, not the SAME recognition).

The thing I don't understand is how games not yet released have already gotten some awards. For example Payday 3, which as of right now has a mostly negative rating on steam, has the Gamescom best PC game award 2023, while (at the time) not being fucking released yet. How can you award a game when it's not even out to play.

Nah dude if it’s award worthy it’s award worthy

You really believe that the Dead Space and RE4 remakes don't deserve to compete?
And who cares about awards anyway, it's just the industry trying to lick its own arse and congratulate the biggest sellers, just like the Oscars.

Yes they do not deserve to compete. They had their chance a decade ago.

You know they aren't 1:1 remakes, right

Doesn’t matter. Remaking a cult classic shouldn’t be allowed to compete with new games for game of the year. They have a nostalgia factor that could interfere with actual judging and crowd involvement.

why do you care so much about awards that mean literally nothing?

They mean a lot to the people who make games. Imagine spending years working on a new original IP just for a remaster of a game that came out 10 years ago to be seen as the best game made this year. It’s not right.

There should be just a reward for best remake and best remaster. That's it.

Who cares about game awards?
"Re-whatevers should be banned from marketing events"
Most award shows are already a joke while some atleast have qualified peers as judeges, but I haven't seen any game awards show that was anything but a shallow marketing event.

Who cares about game awards?

Amen. Let my dollars be the award.

depends, there are usually two catagories for remakes
you have simple graphics updates with maybe a couple qol updates like the last of us
or you have full blown reimaginations of the original concept to what it was supposed to be, but was held back due to the limitations of its time like resident evil 2, or the hl1 remake.

You described difference between remaster and remake.

Nope. The Last of Us Part 1 was a remake of The Last of Us, not a remaster. For comparison, The Last of Us also got a remaster, The Last of Us Remastered.

Depends on whether you go by the labeling choice from the publisher or the conventional definition. Both TLOU Remastered and TLOU Part 1 lean towards being remasters (although TLOU Part 1 is obviously more involved). A publisher can put out a game with any title they want and refer to it however they want to as a marketing choice. Naughty Dog relating to their work in TLOU Part 1 as a remake doesn't ultimately matter.
The bar for a bona-fide remake would typically be more aligned to a re-imagining, more substantive and less strictly focused on visual fidelity upgrades, which rules out TLOU Part 1.
TLOU Part 1 is very similar in scope to eg. Metroid Prime Remastered, where there's a pretty significant asset overhaul but zero or almost zero gameplay changes.
Compare that to say, RE2 Remake where the characters and setting are the only thing tying it to the original. It's a total re-imagining of a concept, and that's more prototypical of what a remake is.

The publisher could call it whatever they want, and TLOU Part 1 would still be a remake because they remade the game. They had to rebuild the same levels anew from fresh assets. If they took the old game and dropped in updated textures or enabled better lighting effects, that would be a remaster, but having to recreate the old game in a new engine means it's a remake. 
They could have even remade the game with the goal of making the result look exactly the same as the original rather than an update. There'd be no reason for them to do that, but still, in that case, it would still be a remake. 
Similarly, when fans try to recreate some iconic level in the latest version of Unreal, they are remaking the level, not remastering it. If they change as little as possible, that makes it a faithful remake, not a remaster.

TLOU P1 was an upgrade to the TLOU remaster.
Not a remake. It didn't alter the fundamentals like story, levels, gameplay anyway.

It was a remake, they literally remade it. It doesn’t matter if they remake it and keep everything the same - if it’s built from the ground up in a new engine with brand new everything, then it’s a remake

Except it was a remake. Just one that decided to act like a remaster for some stupid reason.
Just because they didn’t changed story, levels, gameplay doesn’t mean it is not a remake (though they did add minor stuff to gameplay). It was remade to be exactly the same which is just a waste of time for everyone involved including players.
It was a remake… just an incredibly stupid and unneeded one.

They remade the game. They made it again. They remade it in the Part II engine. They created new animations and new assets. They included gameplay absent from the original. They did not change the story or alter the level designs, and remakes don't need to do either of those to be remakes.
"The Last of Us Part I is a remake of the 2013 video game The Last of Us," - Wikipedia
"A faithful remake" - Sony
"Even though it’s a remake of a game released in 2013" - Game Informer
"The Last of Us Remake Is Wholly Unnecessary" - PCMag
"A gorgeous and well-honed remake" - IGN
"The remake is worth a new cover charge" - Washington Post
"As complete a remake as you could hope for" - Eurogamer
"The remake of Naughty Dog's 2013 dystopian classic" - Cnet
"It is a remake of the 2013 game The Last of Us" - Fandom wiki
"People have praised Naughty Dog's dedication and attention to detail on this remake" - The Guardian
"A PS5 remake that shines above most" - VG247
"The Last of Us Part One Is a Good Time to Reconsider Remakes" - Wired
"This is a fully fledged remake of the original The Last of Us" - CNN
Remake does not mean "creative reimagining." That's just a definition you feel like applying to the word. Nor is it an honorific we reserve only for especially impressive releases.

Same as trans athletes should have their own sports league?

no

I disagree. New games competing with old titles also set some standards for the new games as well.
Besides, we have new generations playing games who might also like the old games and have never tried them.
From the top of my head, I'd put Diablo 2 remaster against these new games. It's been 20 years...

Equally important old classic music should not be remastered simply to make it louder by reducing the dynamic range with compression 🤬

People care bout these awards?

That's because you believe "Game Award" is some sort of serious thing and not just another marketing stunt.

Bad take. Something like the resident evil reimaginations deserves every nomination it gets

Nah remakes are great ddead space, re4, destroy all humans, but remasters are low effort and pretty much only for people who still play the original on rotation

If remake is like Black Mesa - it have rights to be on the awards contest. Remasters? No

Ah yes, not norminating a game for the game awards

Remakes and Remasters can both fuck off. How about you make a new original game?

Nope. The game being a remake or a remaster allows it to be enjoyed by a new demographic meaning that it gets to compete against games in the modern market.

And should not be released at full price either....

I love video games, have since I was 5 and got the NES, but I can’t tell you how little I give a shit about what game gets awards.  Play what you like, why does it matter if other people don’t think about games?  Gamer culture like this is so childish, and in fact is why I never will ever refer to myself as a “gamer”.   We’re all just humans playing video games, just like people watch movies.  Taste and preference will vary.  Defining yourself by what media you consume and making it into a lifestyle and personality is a bad call.  There’s a bigger world out there.

Nah, RE4R is my goty so far. If it's rebuilt from the ground up then it should be eligible. Remasters I can see where you're coming from, but then again, who really cares about award shows?

depends on what kind of remake it is.
if it's like a new game then it should qualify
if it's just a graphical uplift, it shouldn't
edit: fixed my comment

If there's some game award for Best Original Screenplay, a remake should be ineligible for that, sure. We could probably imagine a few other categories it would be ineligible for. 
But disqualified from ANY awards? Why? If a remake of a 20-year-old game is one of the most played games of the year, if it's played by a bunch of people who never even played the original, if it required a bunch of tech that the original never had... it's a remake, but it's also a game from this year.

You know the year was bad when a remaster was chosen as the game of the year in at least one category..

A good game is a good game.

Does that mean sequels?

Remakes are fine as the game is essentially remade from the ground up.
Remasters and re releases, though, should not qualify !

Why

remaster - maybe (or with their own category)  remakes - no they build the game with a new engine which is a lot of work, only the story writers have an easier time.

You know what I’m tired of? Remakes and remasters
Gimme some new shit, god damn it!!

Remakes do count...the RE remakes and FF7 being a lot to the plate

No.

Agreed

Also directors cuts

Don't remakes and remasters have the right to buy ads?

Wouldn't it be cool if there was a different category for remake/remaster of the year?

I actually thought this would already be the case

I think it's should be allowed also if the original wasn't nominated for that category before

companies also shouldnt be allowed to sell "game of the year" editions if that game never won or was even nominated for a goty award

Who cares?
Are there actually game awards that are not marketing tools by publishers?
They are either made by non independent media "IGN" or need to be not too harsh to the publishers as to not burn bridges for future early access.
Like an actual comitee and fair selection of canidates by a somewhat indepent organisation?
I never seen "game of the year" or similar anything other than text without meaning.
The games "win" that they want to sell more of....

And so should be any exclusives.

Remasters yes, remakes no

The ones running the industry feel different. "Is it shit?" "Yes." "Does it make money?" "Yes." "Then keep repeating that behavior!"

I'm just sayin, if the remaster is the equivalent to original FF7 vs the new one, I'm cool. Those games are only barely related at this point haha.

Is this meme been remastered as well? I don't remember it to be that HD

The video game industry wants your money and it knows about gamer nostalgia. Easy bet, easy money

It's like I tell my daughters when I wake them up for school:

You're not tired, you're sleepy, it's different!!!

Erm, maybe I'm thinking of the opposite, or something...

Idk, metroid zero mission was a remake of the first metroid, and it is its own game.

Who cares?
They are game awards. Just make your own.
GOTY isn't a title with actual meaning someone can bestow. Call anything you want GOTY.

Ah yes, lets ignore the VERY GOOD REMAKE, and lets award the game with 10% positive reviws, what could go wrong? Bro read your sentence again and think please, if a game is good, it's good, you can't do anything about it.

Remasters...no. remakes, definitely yes

LPT: Ignore award shows. They're all bullshit.

What's a game awards? Can the shareholders eat that?

Devs should make higher quality games.

I don't mind full remakes, but I definitely agree on disqualifying remasters.

If it is a remake then it has to be a truly a remake like FFVII, whereas the billionth version of Skyrim, absolutely should not be counted.

why did you use the remake of this image instead of the original?

Let them compete. If they're unoriginal cash grabs they'll lose in their own right. If they're great, they're great.

Except RE4. GOTY

Idk man mass effect legendary was such a lovely experience, RE4 Remake as well

Why does it matter what games win awards? Do you like a game more because some dude in a suit says you should? Do you like a game less because that same guy says you shouldn't like it?

Does someone actually cares about game awards/ scores to begin with?
(Not saying you should not check reviews before deciding to buy a game)

"THE REGAMES AWARDS"

It's the same thing happening in movies. How many batman and Spiderman remakes and reboots are there. It's an issue that extends in all walks of entertainment. It's late stage capitalism breeding 'innovation", coupled with a decline in consumer mentality to stand up to these atrocious practices.

The isn’t a single Spider-Man or Batman movie remake

That's a terrible remake op.

What do you mean? Are you not invited to the non-consumer awards, where we have:
Best recycled experience.
Best ROI title.
Best repackage of old games.
Best FOMO tactic.
Best pricing for in game assets.
Best pool of paid reviewers.
Most loyal consumer base.

Deadspace GOTY LETS GOOOOO

Why though? If remakes and remasters keep winning enough awards to make this an issue even worth thinking about... doesn't that say a lot more about the quality of new releases (or, alternatively, the quality of the judges behind these "awards") than anything else?
"Hey, you know that game that we already played 10 years ago...? Yeah, that game with a slightly new coat of paint is better than anything the entire global game industry managed to output over this entire year. In fact, it's so not even close that we're thinking about maybe removing remakes and remasters from consideration. How are poor devs supposed to compete with 10-year-old games?"
Let it be a wakeup call about the state of the game industry.

Like a remastered meme format?

You say with a worse remake of a screenshot

This is some Gen X bullshit.

It's video game awards. It's not a real thing that matters, so who cares?

Unbelievably BASED

Remaster, yes, remakes, hell no. RE4 Remake is a masterpiece, and absolutely deserves recognition. You can absolutely have it's status as a remake as part of the discussion, but to exclude it outright is nonsense.

Might as well disqualified totk for being just botw

Who gives a fuck about awards. Just play games you like

no RE 4 remake game of the year stfu.

Maybe new games should have better concepts than remakes so they would win instead?

Separate categories indeed.  I think EVERY job should have awards or something to say, "we recognize the exceptional work y'all've done".  Remasters are probably more technical and maybe a little boring to some people, but we KNOW that they can be done well and we know they can be done poorly.  Hell, even the "poor" ones, Silent Hill is coming to mind, aren't always the people's fault.  Sometimes, the original company don't keep original files and source codes bc they didn't respect the material enough (still talking about Silent Hill/Konami).
But remakes are a different story.  For example, Shadow of the Colossus shows how a remake can be art in itself and not just from a technical standpoint.

Just ignore video game awards and you'll stop being tired of this.

Separate category is way to go

Remakes, no, but remasters and upgrades, yes.

Truly why do you care? They're just awards.

Damn, this is a TAKE. I was not expecting to feel to split so suddenly...
I think I agree, I suppose, that they should have a diff category.

This meme doesn't count either to contests

I can get behind this

I agree they should be disqualified from a GOTY running, but idk its it should its own category. Idk how often games truly remaster/remade like say dead space or RE4 which have 2 distinct differences imo. Idk if enough games are remastered/remade well/often enough to warrant their own category.

I googled video game awards and I couldn’t find anything. Why is everyone freaking out?

Remasters should never have a chance, but it really depends on what you mean by, "remake" because I would look at something like the Crash and Spyro remakes and say that they shouldn't count, but I could look at any of the Resident Evil remakes and say those are inarguably different games from the originals.

Sometimes there's some serious effort put into remakes and remasters. Metroid Prime Remastered was an overhaul of the controls and graphics and is now like, the way to play the game. Resident Evil 4 Remake is a completely different game than the original on pretty much every level, and it's just as good as the original (some would argue even better). The Red Dead Redemption Remaster was a fine example - I'm joking, fuck Rockstar for not making it available on PC.

Same for movies too then? Or do you just not understand what a remake is?

Also nominees for Game of the Year should be at least a year old.

What do you mean? How else could I laugh at Xbox players with their terrible starfiled and point at user ratings on metacritic without another TLOU game of they year, because PS5 definitely has games.

Resident Evil Remake was a masterpiece surpassing the OC. So… not agree for Remake.
Remaster, you have my full support.

If remakes are winning game awards it really just shows how stagnant new concepts and ideas are.

If this grinds your gears, google “top 10 sneakers of the year” for any recent year and be prepared to see 10 shoes from the 1980s.

I couldn't even name a game award

Unless you personally lost out on an award to a remake, why would you care?

Are you afraid of RE4?

why?

How about we just judge everything on merit and in context instead of being concerned about labels and up-front categorical disqualification? The whole point of game awards is to let the subjective evaluators do their evaluation. There's no point making it more complicated than it needs to be by restricting their ability to make choices.
RE2 -> RE2R is a very different situation than, say, TLOU -> TLOU Part 1. We really don't need rules to impose restrictions on game awards.

Age of Empires II: DE is a mastapiece though

Imagine caring about game awards

agreed, yes. just have best Remake/Remaster, and tbh i just believe they are the same word at this point

Then this remastered meme should have its own category

Not saying it hasn't happened but can you link me any Remaster winning any significant award? So I don't really get were this opinion even comes from... 
As other said, remasters are fine. A remaster is the game redone. And we are fine with it in film.
Otherwise you you better be saying the Peter Jackson Lord of the Ring shouldn't of won any awards because Because Ralph Bakshi did it prior (though it was two movies instead of three). Or that the new Dune shouldn't of be up for awards.

Would the same apply to something like ff7 remake? Its pretty much a hole new game at that point

This is the same type of person that's never played a final fantasy game in their life and is mad the remakes are amazing.

do users really give a shit about the awards that the gaming industry gives itself?
isn't it the same thing as the oscars? it's just masturbation

I never thought about that. But I agree.

Ya'll still watching and caring about video game awards shows is hilarious
you know that 99% of awards shows are complete frauds, right?!

If a remake of a 15 year old game beats out current games, what does that tell you about the state of gaming today?

Remasters sure, but remakes often change the game up so much that they are unrecognizable from their previous versions

Resident Evil REmake of the first of the series is a god damn masterpiece. They improved every aspect of the game, still left in some of the little cheesy B movie stuff, and the HD port still looks great 20 years later. In my opinion, this is how everyone should remake a game.

why do you care about game awards anyway?

Show me one remastered game that was as good as the original or better.

What happened to her face?

I feel like separate category is the perfect solution. It feels like cheating when companies effectively release the same game with bonus content and updated graphics, and also win rewards for it instead of actual new games. Not that I don’t like them though

Fuckin a!

Overall, if there was some better new, fresh gaming content, then that would win over these types of remakes/remasters.

I'm just tired of remakes and remasters in general. 
How many talented devs are making games that have already been made, instead of making new games, while we sit around waiting for massively expanding development timelines.

The awards are paid advertising not ceremonies of merit.

Do people seriously care about game awards?

Yep, but they already are from the only GOTY award that actually matters to me, my personal GOTY!

It's not as if any EA sports games were making the list anyway, with how shit they all are

This should especially apply to movies as well.

How about we start Re-Making bad games then ? Many of them had insteresting ideas and concepts and giving those a second chance with proper development team seems fair to me

Who cares? It doesn't matter

Better idea, stop taking award shows seriously.

How about we let the players decide instead of blindly following one person's opinion?

Why do you care who wins awards?

Lol eat shit re4 remake GOTY

I'd say a new category. A lot of work goes into the good ones, even if it's a mostly "cosmetic" one like Demon's Souls or Shadow of the Colossus.

I disagree. FF7, Dead Space and Resident Evil 4 are all good examples why such gatekeeping makes no sense.
But I do think that its ok to be more critical/strict to then sice its not a fully new product

My first instinct was to agree with this. But if it was the best the year had to offer, it was the best the year had to offer. It's on devs to make a better game.

I think we need to define remastered since some games get a face-lift while others are overhauled big time with the remastered title.

tired of the stance or it happening? The elders spoke of  a day when mans speech would become so sarcastic, the sarcasm would eat itself. Leaving acid in place where cooling saliva was flowed

If a game is good, it shouldn't have a problem beating an old remake/remaster? Is the remake/remaster the actual issue or is it the voting system or voters?

Aren't you using the remake of a meme?

Yea, this is a stupid take.

This sub and gaming subs are too obsessed with game awards.

Game awards aren’t real.

Complete remakes should be eligible.

Replace text with: "Game Awards are meaningless marketing gimmicks and don't mean shit except as fanboy fuel."

I still remember when Fortnite won even though it came out in a totally different year.

Yeah

So what are you saying is that women with boob jobs shouldn't be allowed to vote?

The Halo 2 remaster was fucking fantastic tho.

Why do you care about the rules for industry awards?

A simple port to a new platform with little if anything changed, sure.
The Halo 2 remaster, Demons Souls Remake, Final Fantasy 7 Remake(I know it's a secret sequel) and others like them should be considered because they are new games.

Totally agree !

Game Awards 
HAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHABhahahahahHhahahahahahahahahahahahhayeyeuwiajgsueiwjahaiwi
That the greatest amount of attention they deserve.

Objection: If a remaster is better than all other games that came out that year, it's an indication that it's been a really shit year and nothing else deserved it.

If the game is a lot of fun and lot of people like it then who cares?
What's the difference between that and a game riding on nostalgia and franchise momentum like ToTK?

I disagree. I'm fine with it. If a game is good enough to win I don't care if it is a remake or remaster.

Wtf is that scuffed-ass redrawn meme template lmao

So tired of what, exactly? I don't remember any remaster or remake ever winning GOTY awards. If we're talking The Game Awards, I don't think a remaster or remake was ever nominated in the first place. You're getting upset about nothing.

I don't care about the subject itself, but it's quite funny you used an HD upscale of the original Simpsons image for this thread.

Never really paid attention to games awards, but are remakes and remasters out here cleaning up the awards or something? Is this in anticipation of a reboot in the form of BG3 cleaning house? I guess I don't understand the actual concern, or how the OP is being injured here. Dismissed on standing.

Why? If modern games cannot defeat my nostalgia, then they deserve to suffer.

A remake that significantly changes the gameplay should still qualify for game awards contests, eg: a 2D Metroidvania remake of Arkane's Prey, a 3D action-RPG remake of any one of the Ultima games, etc.

For real how many awards is resident evel 4 gonna win

FF7R is more of a sequel than a "remake"

What annoys me most,  is them taking an old games and remaking it, then claiming that is is rtx raytracing that made it look like a whole new game.     Raytracing didn't do that, people making new models and using a new game engine did that, raytracing don't take an old game and make it look modern.      Just tell the truth instead of using it to sell nvidia products.

Same should go with any game that uses Denuvo: instant disqualification.

I'm starting to hate Lisa Simpson because of this stupid meme format

There must be no boundaries for game awards.
If remake of something is cool game why it should not be  awarded?
Because it exploit nostalgia? Many games exploit something to be pleasant (erotics, movie/book references, gore/shock content, cool graphics is also kinda exploiting human love to visuals)
Because it use previous game content? Most games use something from some older games
Because it use already written code and models? Tons of  games use paid or free assets, reuse things from other projects and so on
Remakes has not cons which most games do not have. By this logic, only two or three games in 10 years could participate, because this is near amount of fully original games with no references to anything

Or we could just let them be, because game awards are and have always been nothing but marketing.
Money's going to talk, every time. Sometimes that's the money a ton of consumers will pay for a great game, and sometimes thats money studios will pay to have their games showcased. End of the day though, money talks.

A good game is a good game.

As long as reboots are not in there with them I agree.

I'm cool with a separate category

Totally agree with you

yeah but then companies playing it safe that year wouldn't be able to try and outbid each other for the big fancy award winner advertisement

Definitive Mafia 1 is REALLY good though tbh

Who cares though? Lol

Ksp2 should not be disqualified, though it wont be winning any awards soon

Resident evil 4 is literally a whole different game

But there is no better fps game in 2023 then quake 2.

So many people in here sound like conditioned abuse victims lol. There is no "it depends" with this shit. There used to be a time when game companies actually made new games instead of every cash grab they could think of.

Hot take, it's not a problem with the awards, but the people who vote for them.

Does anybody actually care about any sort of game awards?

Game awards are open to any game that spends hundreds of thousands of dollars to be put up for an award. It’s some pretty corrupt bs in my opinion

GOTY awards mean literally nothing except to games industry insiders so who cares

In my opinion, Remakes (games that have been remade from scratch) such as Black Mesa should be eligible for a reward.But remasters or updates like Metro 2033 Redux (still a good game) or HD versions of games from the 1990s or 2000s don't deserve the reward if they already had it in the past.

If new games aren't better than the remake that's somehow the remakes problem?

The best way I can disagree with this is with Resident Evil 4 remake, and Dark Souls Remastered. DSR is literally just a better performing Dark Souls Prepare to Die, and Resident Evil 4 remake is a massive overhaul of the original, adding new stuff, making it both different and the same. DSR would not deserve a Goty, but Re4 would deserve one.

