Thank you for taking the time to do this man.

No worries! He never does any podcasts, especially not in English so I though this was necessary. I think he was friends with the interviewer, and some of the chatter made it feel like he did it as a favour too.

They go way back. The interviewer is Lasse, the CEO of HAVU and he started the org basically just to sign this promising 5 stack playing under the name Encore and their IGL was of course Aleksib. This 5 stack went and won every single LAN in Finland for the next year, before some of the players got picked by ENCE and the rest is history.

Thanks. Great guy and I hope he finds some success!

[+]CautiousControl7881 8 points9 points10 points 4 days ago (4 children)
He did another interview with the Havu guys a couple years ago, think it was when he was still in OG.  But it's a bit harder having to read subtitles the entire time instead of being able to listen to it (since I don't know Finnish) so this makes it a lot easier.  Thanks for posting the main points from the interview!

Theres the car ride episode with Lasse as well from when Aleksib joined G2

[+]CautiousControl7881 2 points3 points4 points 4 days ago (0 children)
Yeah that's the one I was thinking of, it must have been right after he left OG and joined G2.

Subtitled TV series are the easiest way to learn languages

[+]CautiousControl7881 1 point2 points3 points 4 days ago (0 children)
True but sometimes I like to listen to podcasts in the background and without reading subtitles I don't get anything from the video.

Thank you a lot for the write up. Was actually good interview with lots good insight.
Just a couple things to add:
- He said that in G2 it just didnt click with that line-up as they could not find proper roles and as mentioned he did not have a good fit with coach
- He felt lots of pressure at G2, and this was his first time really in this kind of situation where everyone expected you to win. Felt it affected his individual performance and calling.
- One thing he mentioned was new both in G2 and NiP was that he did not really have any say to roster moves.
- He was schoked when G2 finally informed of the benching as he thought it was good lineup. But at NiP he was kind of relieved after he was benched
And one correction, I think that he mentioned of the NiP line-up that at his time it was not possible to save the line up with one change and speculated that more changes would be needed as they are doing now.

Thanks for the added points! :)

Hasn't really played GTA games since San Andreas.
Vice City and San Andreas were the best ones anyway
t. 30 year old boomer

I like IV, the city and the story are top tier. SA is really good too.

Yeh i really wish if they were going to redo something.
Redo vice City, don't need a huge world, just a vibrant and fun one.

That would be wicked, it's my favourite GTA by far

VIDEO KILLED THE RADIO STAR

Gta 3 for the music only :D cruising around and blasting kjah on the radio

Imagine SA story with V gameplay.

GTA 2 was the best and it's gone downhill after that with all the modern 3D nonsense!
Yours, 40+ year old genx'er.

Second time we hear about pre-existing fights in NiP after Hampus mentioned people holding grudges which just leaves a few possibilities:
Grudges between Rez, Brollan, and/or Es3tag.

I think that Konfig had problems with Hampus. After the decision of benching Hampus, Konfig was posting daily stories on IG about great day on bootcamp etc.

Probably true maybe, but k0nfig came after aleksi and aleksi's point was that there was already tension before he arrived so has to be REZ/ brollan/ hampus (or maybe est3tag too but he was benched during aleksis time)

Es3tag was on the roster when aleksi joined and rez was awping

Aleksi and k0nfig did play in NiP at the same time and he probably didn't mean the players but the management having issues.

Do the fights have to be between players? The quote about their problems not being possible to fix with roster moves kinda points towards the org/management rather than the players.

Considering they benched es3tag, then brollan and es3tag came back, I it may have had to do with brollan. Only if the roster moves were aimed at getting the conflicts out of the lineup

Maybe Konfig as well, he hasn't got the cleanest reputation.

k0nfig joined after Aleksib.

That's right. That time in NiP is like a fever dream to be honest.

Didn't Konf1g tweet something about aleksi's calls in a major? "Trusting the individuals more than the setups/calls" or something?
Maybe I am remembering it wrong

It was the reverse; "Didn't trust the individuals, only the stratbook" or the like. He said it all in an interview to HLTV, like a well-minded professional does. In Twitter he only walked back the statements.

Thanks for translation, this is a cool interview to see his thoughts on his time in G2 ... he really didnt get along with xtqzz as previously mentioned

also said that g2 changed management after he and jackz left

Carlos, the previous CEO, had a different vision for G2 before he “left.”

ye, they didnt even have mental coach back then

"Mental coach? Ain't cocaine and hookers enough?"

"Sorry I heard metal coach \,,/"

i can literally imagine carlos saying this seriously to the players

[+]Electronic-Archer720 comment score below threshold-11 points-10 points-9 points 4 days ago (2 children)
Both Monesy and Niko said they didnt feel confortable with Aleksib Play style
They like hooxi IGL

That's a non-statement though.
Not saying it isn't true just that you couldn't expect any serious player to publicly say they felt better with their previous IGL even if it was true.

another classic hltv bait

But people will still gonna ignored all of this to blamed g2 failure on him

He wasnt the right IGL for G2 anyway  not compatible play Styles... They also defended Hooxi when they wanted to bench Him

What has XTQZZ achieved as a coach in his career for him to be revered in the community anyway? Seriously Vitality, g2 even tsm. If it wasn’t for zywoo and big names in g2 he comes no where near in the conversation of a T1 coach.

It's really hard if not impossible to properly evaluate the impact of a coach so people tend to extrapolate from signs. Vitality with him was the only roster to make a 6-man lineup work (granted nobody else really tried) and when they swapped IGL's to Apex who was not very experienced with that role they did not skip a beat.
Also, worth mentioning Vitality hired him as an Analyst leading up to the major because they wanted help with tactics which is also when the roster became the best team in the World.
At the end of the day it is all just guesswork though.

All guesswork without any achievements to show for it. Don’t you think after a certain period of time a coaches performance should be evaluated based on the team’s success? Vitality and g2 both have found success after he left. He is simply not a T1 coach and people here need to accept that. I got downvoted to hell when i mentioned this on the tsm post.

Vitality also had success while he was there, and he was working with a completely different roster. G2 was still a very good team with him and he was working with Jackz instead of JKS. TSM was never going to be good with that roster.

[+]omkar_T7 comment score below threshold-7 points-6 points-5 points 4 days ago (0 children)
For a team that vitality was and the individuals they had they underperformed for the most.

he won trophies and his team reached top1. if its not tier1 idk what is.
If it wasn’t for zywoo and big names in g2
can be said about almost any successful coach.  also zywoo initially became top1 under him.

He says CSGO was in a perfect state
Silver podcaster in shambles.


This interview was filmed couple days after Sidney.

Yeah, I totally forgot the Wonderful signing and until they talked about CS2, I thought it was really recent.

Man it feels good reading this as a nip fan :))))

rip nip

just waiting for fnatic to sign swedes. NIP reddit flairs will change to orange QUICKLY

Did he say if the fights in NIP were between other players, management or himself?
This just further convinces me that NIP need an entirely new management.

I got the sense there were conflicts between the players

Thanks for getting back to me!
hmm, that was just him, rez, brollan, Hampus and es3tag, right? Sounds weird, always thought the swedes were mates and es3tag seems like a likable and reasonable guy

Lol, he even had trouble remembering all the lineups NiP had during his tenure.

I bet. I had to cheat and look at hltv

Konfig wanted to fight like in Malta

He wasn't even on the team back then, but good point...

His fight in Malta directly led to him being signed by NIP so maybe he thinks thats what they want him to do

I believe this new navi has a good roster for cs2 and simple benching himself was a good thing for everyone involved.

Good but not great. Maybe s1mple comes back as rifler to Na’Vi after break. Who knows

[+]omkar_T7 comment score below threshold-24 points-23 points-22 points 4 days ago (8 children)
How is s1mple, the best player in the team being benched is a good thing for the team?

it's like when you kick the toxic man-child in your MM games and suddenly you start to play better. environment is important for your mental in CS.

[+]omkar_T7 comment score below threshold-16 points-15 points-14 points 4 days ago (2 children)
There is a huge difference though. That toxic child was carrying you in mm and winning you games you shouldn’t have. Now that he is gone it’s all good dandy, everyone’s laughing, having fun and although you lose against the same tough teams you won before “you played good”. But outsiders can see through your bullshit

Or they start playing better because the team atmosphere is better? Your playstyle can totally change from how you want to play if you have someone toxic on your team, making you doubt yourself and make mistakes you otherwise wouldn't have.
How is this so hard for you to understand? Lol
Edit: you ok man? lmao https://i.imgur.com/zUeDuMv.png

Im not the one who reported you to reddit

I mean C9 right now are also looking better with sh1ro - a top 3-4 player in the last 3 years - benching himself. Maybe a change of scenery can be good for both parties, w0nderful is a great replacement on paper at least.

But sh1ro left before played with a real IGL instead of elec and Hobbit
Really bad decisión from sh1ro i think

C9 has played 4 games with boombl4 so it’s too soon to tell how they are doing. Also these few months are teams transitioning to cs2 and imo it’s hard to judge how well they will do in the near future. The break is good for s1mple since he is finding it hard to awp in the game. We have yet to see how w0nderful will perform in cs2 and only time will tell

Simple GOAT of csgo - Yes
Simple the best player right now - NOPE.
He is tired and didnt want to compete. Wonderful is much better player at the moment, easier to work with, better vibes from him.

[+]omkar_T7 comment score below threshold-11 points-10 points-9 points 4 days ago (4 children)
How is s1mple, the best player in the team being benched is a good thing for the team?

They can still become better as a team even if they lose their most talented individual.
As I recall, Mouz got better when Niko left because his calling was selfish and he took up a lot of space on the team. When he left they started working better together as a team.

He was toxic and ruined the environment in the team for at least a year, lol? Because of him NAVI lost so many rounds in the last months??? The last 3 matches against MOUZ were lost because simple couldn't handle his tantrum.
NAVI played 4v5 against FAZE and still won mirage 13-4 (!!!) https://www.hltv.org/matches/2367253/natus-vincere-vs-faze-iem-sydney-2023
https://www.hltv.org/stats/matches/mapstatsid/164549/faze-vs-natus-vincere
Now imagine NAVI with a decent awper instead of the last second substitute (NAVI's coach blade), i think NAVI had a great chance of winning again over FAZE and instead of FAZE winning everything in CS2... NAVI could have a slice of the CS2 pie.
No idea how you "missed" all these things if you watched NAVI's games.

They Lost to Mouz because Mouz is better and arguably top 2 team right now lol
Jimpphat is fucking insane

[+]krxo1 0 points1 point2 points 4 days ago (0 children)
there are a thousand examples in sports where replacing ur best player with someone worse (skillwise) is good for the team

Thank you, I read all and I care about cs, finnish cs, Aleksib and you. All the best

i have always been a great lover of AleksiB, please don’t check my comments history from 2022

he’s lying he’s typed “keksiB” i’ve seen it with my own two eyes he’s a fake fan


looks better, and everything else is worse
yup, thats CS2.

Iso B

Any funny moments or stories from the interview?

S1mple missing out sidney was akin to a legendary story from the Finnish scene, when a Finnish team was traveling to a LAN in Europe and went to pick up one of their players in the morning of their flight, the player opened the door in a bath robe and said he's not coming. The team then had to scramble for an emergency substitute. They are not naming said player though. Finnish scene is known for minced meat and bathrobes at this point.

minced meat
jOELZ on lan? i arent think that

Hey! Im interested in the Finnish scene (im Finnish). Ei oo ollu aikaa kattoo podcastia viä, ois kiva jos joku lyhyt tldr löytys :)

He says that even though the Finnish scene is a bit low at the moment, this is the perfect time to step up, grind the grind and be found out since its the new game so people are looking for fresh talent.

Kiitos!

I love my boy

“Hasn’t really played GTA games since San Andreas”
How did this even come up lol

Aleksi kinda compared the hype for source 2 to GTA 6 hype, and mentioned he doesn't play the newer titles but watches some streams of them.

Source 2 is comparable to the unreal engine hype though

I hope Aleksi finds succes in the future.

Also just to add, he said that they knew that k0nfig's and Brollan's roles are the same, but still went with k0nfig.
Now NiP realised that it doesn't work, so they removed Brollan.

Thank you for the translation, this is a cool interview to see his thoughts on his time in G2

Scammer

He knows who replaces S1mple, obviously doesn't reveal him.
I mean... it's official already.

It was recorded days after Sydney and uploded today, I just made notes as I listened.

says s1mple is the GOAT of CSGO.
But what about Shroud! /s

[+]Electronic-Archer720 comment score below threshold-9 points-8 points-7 points 4 days ago (1 child)
Good IGL but didnt fit well in G2 i think both Monesy and Niko don't like full structure and they improved individually with Hooxi

He said that problem was with roles and how coach wanted to use the awper or something along those lines. Also having no anchor player was a problem.

[+]KaNesDeath comment score below threshold-13 points-12 points-11 points 4 days ago (2 children)
Wow, that confirms S1mple is in a bad mental state currently. Compounding it is that no team wants him. His best move would be to Cloud9. An that roster has already stated privately they want nothing to do with him. S1mple to Falcons?

What

[+]Longdingleberry comment score below threshold-34 points-33 points-32 points 4 days ago (11 children)
I can tell that he’s going through something internally, and I hope he knows he has fans out there.

I didn't get that impression at all

[+]Longdingleberry comment score below threshold-35 points-34 points-33 points 4 days ago (9 children)
Cool bro. I’m a big fan.

Asut Amerikassa, mistä tiedät että Aleksilla on henkisiä ongelmia kun kuuntelit suomenkielisen podcastin? :)

[+]Longdingleberry comment score below threshold-33 points-32 points-31 points 4 days ago (6 children)
Are you 14? You need some attention buddy?

Vittu oot tyhmä :D

you're seriously 40+ and acting like this?

What’s with the hostility?

Yeah, I don't understand his behaviour. I'm pretty convinced it's the worst internet troll.

I’m just saying I’m a fan of a pro gamer. I don’t know what these people are upset about.
Dude is great at the game, and I hope he’s got a supportive group around him.

[+]Longdingleberry comment score below threshold-6 points-5 points-4 points 4 days ago (0 children)
I said I am a fan of Aleksib
You are weird

Are you kids down voting me because I’m a fan?
This is fucking strange for one. But as a grown man, trying to look out for another grown man?  You kids keep doing your thing.
Aleksib, I see you man. I’m old school , and I am a huge fan. I’m not trying to call you out, I just see it in your eyes brother.
Hopefully you know that you’re not just a cs player

Maybe even link it here bro?

Thanks for this!

Sick Intro Music ngl
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy. © 2023 reddit inc. All rights reserved.
REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc.
Advertise - games
π Rendered by PID 50 on  reddit-service-r2-loggedout-cff59bdc7-mxzjf  at 2023-11-20 03:53:03.775247+00:00 running 2542059 country code: US.